The unexpected victory of Donald Trump in the US was greeted with disbelief and devastation among the supporters of Hillary Clinton, his main opponent, and even around he world. Some people who were not impressed described Trump’s triumph as the beginning of the end of America. Only time will tell. One of the big surprises was the reaction of Isis and Boko Haram, which welcomed the victory. Could it be that the terrorists have seen in Trump the Holy Grail of achieving their gory mission? Judging by Trump’s jaundiced and suspicious attitude towards Muslims and the Middle East, which he repeatedly and openly expressed during his campaign, this is probably the case. One of the key things that catapulted the real estate billionaire into the White House is his implacable Islamophobia. Trump has said he would ban all Muslims from going to the US, screen all Muslims in America, and make them wear an identification badge, measures clearly meant to profile and harass the Muslim minority in the US. SECURITY PLAN He said he would direct the US security chiefs to, within 30 days of his presidency, draft a security plan for defeating Isis. I have just finished reading Osama Bin Laden by Michael Scheuer, who was at the helm of the CIA’s Bin Laden unit from 1996 to 1999. The book helps to explain, among other things, the terrorist leader’s mindset. This can help us to understand why Isis and others of its ilk are overjoyed with the election of Donald Trump. From his blanket remarks stigmatising and victimising Muslims, the terrorists think that it will be easy to goad him into invading Muslim lands. This is one of the tactics that Osama encouraged for two purposes: One, to economically drain America and two, to whip up the emotions of the Muslim world against the US and thus reap the dividends of human and financial resources from outraged Muslims to further his group’s global terrorism ambitions. US INTERVENTION Scheuer illustrates this strategy through the US intervention in Afghanistan. Osama began by attacking US interests such as the embassies in Kenya and Tanzania in August 1998, which he described as “the two mighty smashes” together with another assault in Yemen, to incite America to invade the mountainous Afghanistan for an unconventional war to achieve his goals of draining the US economy. This also helped him to increase his anti-America propaganda that was used for indoctrination, recruitment, and funding. If Donald Trump implements his Islamophobic policies and applies the reckless rhetoric that he frequently employed on the campaign trail to US foreign policy in the Middle East, he could create a toxic environment that would be costly for both America and the world. This would greatly benefit the global terror empire that hypocritically camouflages its interests with Islam. Trump needs to understand that Islam is a peaceful religion and that such small violent groups are not representative of the religion, which has over a billion faithfuls. To avoid unnecessary blunders that could have far-reaching global implications, Trump needs a paradigm shift in his perception of the Muslim world. The world is a global village that needs people who build bridges, not burn them. The latter give the enemies of humanity the excuse to further their dastardly activities around the world.  Hassan Mohamed is a correspondent based in Garissa. cardy722@gmail.com  