Host commentator FT: Ghana 3-1 Kenya. 90+1 mins: GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOAL! Ghana 3-1 Kenya. What a goal! Boakye strikes with a brilliant free-kick from a distance that beats Akinyi. 90+1 mins: We will have four minutes of added time. Can the Kenyan girls get something from this? 88 mins: Egiyir with a brilliant shot. Akinyi makes a save. Two minutes to the end of regulation time. 87 mins: Akida with a shot from the right flank. Asantewaa collects it. 84 mins: Kenya attack. Ghana clear to safety. 80 mins: Asantewaa restarts play. 76 mins: PENALTY to Kenya! Akida fouled in the box. The ref changes her mind again and blows for a goal kick after a lengthy tussle with the both set of players. 74 mins: Kinuthia with a free kick that is parried away by goalkeeper Asantewaa. Kenya close. 71 mins: GOOOOOOOOOOAL! Ghana 2-1 Kenya. Addo dispatches the controversial penalty low to the right to beat Samantha. 69 mins: PENALTY to Ghana! Kenyan girls contest the decision but the referee sticks to her guns. 67 mins: Asantewaa spills the ball from a Kinuthia corner but Aquino fails to find the target. Ghana break into attack before Achieng makes timely interception. 65 mins: A little stoppage as Eshun receives treatment. But She's up and Kenya restart play with a throw-in. Kenya win a corner. 60 mins: Long ball by Adobea, blocked by Shikobe for a fruitless corner for Ghana. 60 mins: Into the hour mark here in Limbe. Still Ghana 1-1 Kenya. Akida with the opener for Kenya. Suleman with a neat equaliser for Ghana. 57 mins: Ghana all out in attack now. Acheampong sends a long ball towards Kenya’s goal. Akinyi collects it easily. 55 mins: Ghana make first substitution. Flodadson comes in for Kusi. 54 mins: Boakye's shot from the short corner goes wayward off-target. 53 mins: An end to end encounter. Kenya miss a chance to regain the lead before Ghana break on the counter with Suleman guilty of missing an open opportunity to give the West Africans the lead. He shot is blocked for a corner. 49 mins: GOOOOOOOOOOOAL!! Ghana 1-1 Kenya. Samira Suleman finds the back of the net with a diving header. Game on! 48 mins: Kenya on the offensive goalkeeper Asantewaa keeps Christine Nafula's shot. 47 mins: Ghana close! Addo beats her marker on the right flank but her shot is only good for the side-netting. SECOND HALF: Play is back underway. No changes from either side at the Stade de Limbe. HALF-TIME: Ghana 0-1 Kenya. 45+2 mins: Ambogo makes a timely clearance from a Juliet Acheampong cross. 45+1 mins: There will be three added minutes in this first half, with Kenya still leading Ghana by a solitary goal. 44 mins: Kenya playing with much more confidence. Goal kick to Kenya. Samantha Akinyi restarts play. 43 mins: Shot from Boakye from outside the box goes well over the bar. 41 mins: Excellent play from Kenya. Kinuthia finds Akida to start a counter but Ghana recover to clear danger. Starlets pressing forward more. 37 mins: Ghana with a good ball into the box. Antwi sends to the far post but Akinyi makes a save. 35 mins: 10 minutes to the break. Kenya still lead Ghana 1-0. 34 mins: Achieng back on the pitch. Play restarted. 33 mins: Wendy Achieng down injured. Play stopped. 30 mins: Into the half-hour mark. Kenya survive another attack. Wendy Achieng makes a clearance to deny Boakye. Ghana 0-1 Kenya. 29 mins: Akida's goal was Kenya's first ever at the AWCON. 27 mins: Elizabeth Ambogo goes into the referees' book for dissent. Free-kick to Ghana at the edge of the box. Addo curves it around the Kenyan wall but goes off target. 23 mins: GOOOOOOOOOAL!!!! Ghana 0-1 Kenya. Starlets take the lead through Akida. 22 mins: A minute-long water break for both teams. Kenya restart play. 20 mins: Kenya break forward. Akida with some neat footworks up front but Mary Kinuthia is flagged offside. 14 mins: Ghana continue piling early pressure on the Kenyan backline. Suleman Samira has a shot from the edge of the box that goes off target. 13 mins: CLOSE! Ghana win the first corner of the match. Elizabeth Ado with a free header that goes wide. Kenya survive. 10 mins: Ghana break forward but Ann Aluoch makes a half-clearance. Samantha Aluoch makes a save before launching a long ball to Akida. Ghana intercept. 8 mins: Some exciting exchanges here. A fast-paced match. 7 mins: Kenya find space going forward with skipper Mary Kinuthia in possession but Aquino is flagged offside. 4 mins: Nana makes a comfortable save from Akida's feeble shot. Ghana quickly restart play. 2 mins: Ghana have the ball at the back of the net but its ruled out for offside. 1 min: Ghana in black and white while Kenya are in all red. The Black Queens get an early free-kick. KICK-OFF: Ghana get us underway at the Stade de Limbe! The teams are out on the pitch. Ready for kick-off. Kenya X1 v Ghana: Samantha Akinyi, Ann Aluoch, Wendy Achieng, Elizabeth Ambogo, Dorcas Shikobe, Caroline Anyango, Esse Akida, Cherise Avilia, Corazone Aquino, Christine Nafula, Mary Kinuthia. Subs: Vivian Akinyi, Irene Ogutu, Jacky Ogol, Doris Anyango, Lilian Adera, Ogol Jacky, Lydia Akoth, Jepkirui Sharon Bushenei, Bundi Janet Moraa, Onyango Mercy Achieng Ghana X1 v Kenya: Asantewaa Ama Nana, Adobea Grace, Regina Antwi, Linda Eshun, Janet Egyir, Juliet Acheampong, Alice Kusi, Priscila Okyere, Suleman Samira, Addo Elizabeth, Boakye Portia Referee: Jeanne Ekoumou (Cameroon)  