I was in Dubai last week, and it was fantastic. Incredibly structured, with beautifully designed buildings towering over a sparkling skyline. Towers of Babel standing high as testimonies to the marvels man has made, still trying their best to touch the sky. Endless floors of delights to suit every fantasy, be it fashion or retail or shopping or food or adventure. Dubai has everything to make a paradise: the tallest buildings, the fastest roller coasters, the scariest and most thrilling rides, the biggest malls, the cleanest streets…the list of superlatives is endless. It was a plethora of potent experiences, all wrapped up in a bubble of nearly impossible perfection, and yes, perfection is impossible but Dubai seems pretty close. Then I held it up against Nairobi, my city. I was there when I heard about yet another scandal, at the Ministry of Health. I was there when I heard that the papers for that day had been bought up by the powers that be, so Kenyans would not read the news of just how evil their leadership is. I saw our president’s sister, wearing a beaded flag on her wrist, being named as one of the beneficiaries. Yet do you have any idea what that money could have done here? Just the money from this particular scandal, not even the new ones every week. Better roads. Better housing. Better water. Better power generation. Fixing things that should have been fixed already, even the things that the money was supposed to go to like maternity, and managing HIV/Aids. SCANDAL UPON SCANDAL If you've been paying attention, the internets and conversations from Kenyans everywhere have been about Josephine Kabura. Her stories sound incompetent and as far-fetched as a fantastic fable; she somehow got multiple tenders as the only employee in her company and cannot even remember the transactions shemade. She admitted all of this on live television. The Ministry of Health’s dubious audit is being audited as children die from a lack of vaccines from the money missing. Our corruption very much results in deaths. If you doubt me, just have a look at the people starving in Samburu. People starve in Kenya every year, like clockwork and our government, where money is stolen as much as by any government, ever, still acts surprised. We still raise money for these people even though our money is then promptly misused. We run with the First Lady, as if health is under the mandate of the citizens as opposed to the government. The very same Ministry of Health gives donations for this annual run, as if thanking the First Lady for doing their job for them. What does this all mean? TAKE KENYA BACK I loved Dubai but I would never live there. It is not my home. As wondrous as the shiny lights are, and as captivating as the bubble of existence is, I have a home already. My home is being plagued by people who do not care about it. They are tyrants, not patriots. Despots, not humanitarians. We are being plagued by monsters of censorship in a supposed free state, who are clearly just laying a foundation for a gagged election next year, under the pretext of accusing drunken artists of decaying our society’s moral fibre. We are plagued by leaders whom we have given too much power — so much so that now they mock the very laws we put into place, the very positions that we gave them. As if regularly commenting "daily on issues" shows leadership skills or an actual track record after pulling a disappearing act. We have let them get away with too much, and I am tired. More than tired, I am angry. I am not saying I want a glorious Burj Khalifa in the middle of Nairobi. I don’t want an island visible from the moon, or spectacular dancing fountains every day. I just want what is due me as a Kenyan — which is, in case we have forgotten, the right to expression, the right to a fair hearing, security, health, justice and basic amenities like food, water, electricity and sanitation. ON THE TWELFTH That is what I pay taxes for and have a right to, and no, that is not too much to ask. We are not powerless. We have voices. We can speak. We can march. We can constitutionally remove officials from office. This is your Kenya too, and you can sit and watch it go to the dogs, if that is what you desire. The dogs already have it though, don’t they? It is time to take it back. So, on December 12, 2016, I will be marching with other like-minded Kenyans who want this country to be better. Forget Beyond Zero. I want Beyond Zero Corruption. I am tired. And that is whether or not they tear-gas us like they did the protesters yesterday, after police cordoned them in the park and flung tear gas, after police harassed journalists for taking photos, and protesters many of whom ended up in police stations. We are asking for what is our right and we are persecuted for it. But we will keep asking. Nay, demanding. As Felogene Anumo wrote, quoting Harriet Tubman on her Facebook page after she was made to lie on the ground by the police for taking pictures after the protest: If you hear the dogs, keep going. If you see the torches in the woods, keep going. If there's shouting after you, keep going. Don't ever stop. Keep going. If you want a taste of freedom, keep going. Twitter: @AbigailArunga  