Catholic bishops on Friday sharply criticised the government for failing to fight corruption as they urged the clergy to stop allowing politicians to use the pulpit to spread politics of hate. They also warned politicians to stop jostling for power and confrontational campaigns that could plunge the county into chaos as next year’s elections draw closer. In a statement on the state of the nation released at the Bishop Stam Pastoral and Animation Centre in Kakamega, the bishops said corruption was still hoisting its head high despite promises by the government to fight the vice. They said top government officials were perpetrating corruption without “shame and fear” and demanded the suspension of all those who have been mentioned in mega corruption scandals. “Half-hearted actions will not do; tolerating corruption and letting those considered ‘untouchable’ free to loot the taxpayers’ money for the sake of political expediency shows weak leadership in the fight against corruption,” they said. Rev Philip Anyolo of Homa Bay diocese, chairman of the Kenya Conference of Catholic Bishops, and the vice chairman Rev John Oballa Owaa of Ngong diocese read the statement on behalf of their 24 colleagues at the meeting. They demanded action from the government, which they warned should stop paying lip service to mushrooming scandals of corruption as a tool to win the next elections. They cited the recent Sh5 billion scandal at the Ministry of Health. “We are left wondering what is exactly going on. Is this happening even when other cases have not been dealt with? Or are we being treated to propaganda as a campaign tool for 2017? Is it possible that all have become helpless in the face of this growing monster? It is unfortunate that this evil seems to be perpetrated without shame or fear,” they said. ADDRESS ISSUES The bishops said they were ready to facilitate a non-political forum to address issues of corruption. Dubbed, “For the Love of our country, work for peace and unity”, the statement delved at length into a wide range of issues including education, terrorism and Kenya’s role in mediating a peaceful resolution to the South Sudan conflict. A clear pattern of violence reminiscent of the 2007-2008 chaos that rocked the country, they said, was beginning to take shape just nine months to the polls. “We wish to caution, again and again, our politicians to avoid inflammatory language and the tendency to set one community against the other…as the election period is around the corner let them sow peace and harmony among all communities,” said the bishops. They warned against the election fever which, they said, had gripped the country, diverting attention from delivery of services and development. “As we prepare ourselves for the General Election of 2017, we note with concern the resurgence of violence, confrontational language and hate speech that can plunge us again, as a country, into the situation we were in, in the year 2007-2008 that almost deteriorated into civil conflict,” said the bishops in the statement. The clerics took a tough stance on politicians seeking to use churches as platforms for their campaigns saying they would not allow the practice. CAMPAIGN STATEMENTS They said politicians were free to worship and pray where they wanted but would not be allowed to use the opportunity to make campaign statements. “Consequently, politicians should not be allowed to address the congregations in our houses of worship,” said Bishop Anyolo. They asked the government to work with other nations in search of lasting solution to the conflict in South Sudan in the wake of the decision by Kenya to withdraw her troops serving in the United Nations force. On education, the bishops said the ongoing review of the curriculum should take into account “religious and cherished African values”. “We, therefore, as bishops, reject a curriculum which excludes religious education at all levels of education and where sexuality is not within the context of good values,” they said. They praised efforts being made to restore the integrity of the Kenya Certificate of Primary Education and Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examinations by putting in place stringent measures to deal with cheating. The bishops commended the campaign spearheaded by Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to address cheating in national examinations and asked other government ministries to emulate the example to streamline their operations. They urged the government to do more to tackle terror attacks which have led to loss of lives of innocent Kenyans. “Together we can build a country that is just and free from corruption, a country that is orderly and respects the law and where the dignity of every person is respected,” said Bishop Anyolo.  