Herbs provide a completely natural way to add special flavour to dishes. Being derived from plants, they are perfectly safe to use. When used creatively,  you can create your own signature tastes. Freshly cut herbs are more flavourful than their dried counterparts. If using fresh herbs, use 1/2 the amount you would use if they were dry. Strong herbs such as dhania or rosemary require just 1/4 the amount. Dried herbs lose flavour after a few months, even when stored in tightly sealed jars. When using them, taste the cooking to ensure that you attain the desired flavour. Crumble dry herbs before using them to release their aromatic oil flavours. If you are frying a dish, add them to the hot fat so that the flavours are released. Herbs are a good substitute if you wish to reduce salt in your your diet. Here are some of the most widely used herbs: Basil - A mint flavoured herb which is very flavourful when fresh. Excellent in chicken, fish, pasta and salads. Bay leaf - This herb is used when dried. Remove from food before serving because its leaves remain tough after cooking. Use in fish and rice dishes. Coriander - Has a piercing flavour. Add to meat and vegetable dishes. Dill - A lemon like, salty flavoured herb excellent in fish and lamb dishes. Ginger - The peppery lemon scent of ground ginger enhances meat, chicken, seafood, stir fry vegetables as well as pastries and tea. Marjoram - A strong, savory flavoured herb that is suitable for veal, lamb, poultry, green vegetables and tomato based dishes. Oregano - Similar to marjoram, this herb enhances tomato based dishes and pasta. Parsley - Mild tasting member of the carrot family. It has a mild taste. Use to garnish all meat and vegetable dishes. Rosemary - A highly aromatic herb, that is flavourful whether in dried, ground or fresh form. Use on roasted meats. poultry, peas, carrots, potatoes and gravy. Sage - A pungent lemony herb that can be slightly bitter. Should be used sparingly in meat, poultry stuffing and cheese. Thyme - A strong herb that should be used sparingly. Use in eggs, meat,  salads and seafood.  