The University of Nairobi has finally appointed a seven-member team to spearhead the surrender of its Kenya Science campus to the government, setting the stage for the conclusion of the exercise that has sparked protests. University Council chairman Idle Farah has submitted the seven names to Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i, in a later dated November 24. The council has nominated Isaac Prof Mbeche, deputy vice-chancellor for administration and finance, and Prof Horance Ochanda, deputy principal of the campus, to the board. Others appointed are George Omondi (University Academic Staff Union secretary-general), Angel Mbuthia (vice-chairman of the Students Organisation of Nairobi University), Bernard Waweru (academic registrar), Tim Mwesekli (chief legal officer) and Fredrick Collins Omondi (senior legal officer). “The names represent the various stakeholders in the university,” said Dr Farah. Dr Matiang’i, in a letter to Dr Farah dated September 9, had indicated that the university should surrender the facility to the Kenya Technical Trainers College (KTTC) by December 1, adding that the decision to relocate KTTC was strategic. The Ministry of Education is also working on a memo that will be submitted to the Cabinet for action. The University of Nairobi has received Sh12 billion from the government to set up a similar facility, a process it argues will take five years. MATIANG'I VS. THE OMBUDSMAN The Commission on Administrative Justice (CAJ) has recommended that the plan be halted, but it has been criticised by Dr Matiang’i, who has said it addressed the issues at hand in a prejudicial manner and out of context. The government plans to transfer the 82 acres in Gigiri where KTTC sits to the United Nations, insisting that it is honouring its international obligations and commitments to the global organisation by granting it the land to allow it to expand its offices in the area. “The decision is also pursuant to various constitutional values and principles on economical and efficient application of public resources in a matter that best protects the overall interests of the Kenyans public,” said the Cabinet secretary. However, CAJ chairman Otiende Amollo said the government will be in breach of the law if it transfers the KTTC land to the UN. “We note with concern that if that is the case, then the government will be in breach of the law that governs public land. The regime of acquiring public land is clear: it is held in trust by the national or county government and transferred with the approval of the National Land Commission. Beyond issues of transfer, there is need to compensate those affected,” said Mr Amollo. Dr Matiang’i says the University of Nairobi and the KTTC are government institutions and appropriate notices have been issued to the two entities.  