One of the main suspects in the National Youth Service scandal, Mr Adan Harakhe, and Devolution ministry administrator Hassan Noor Hassan on Monday surrendered to court to avoid arrest for allegedly skipping a hearing. The duo was charged over the payment of Sh47.6 million to one of the companies allegedly paid part of the Sh791 million stolen from the NYS. An Anti-Corruption and Economic Crimes High Court judge meanwhile declined to stop the prosecution of three others over the multimillion-shilling scandal. Anti-Corruption Magistrate Felix Kombo withdrew the warrants of arrest the court had issued on Friday directing the police to arrest Mr Harakhe, the former NYS deputy director-general, and Mr Noor. He also ordered that a cash bail of Sh50,000 from each of them, which had been forfeited to the State, be refunded. The court was told that there was conflicting information as to when they were to appear in court to answer to charges. Lawyer Ahmednassir Abdullahi claimed that State Prosecutor Victor Mule said they were to appear in court on Tuesday. He explained that when 24 listed suspects who are accused of colluding to pay the money in question were to be charged on November 25, only 16 appeared, excluding the two, who were aware they were to present themselves on Tuesday. DEFIED ORDER Mr Abdullahi said Mr Harakhe and Mr Noor had not defied any order to attend court but failed to do so due to the “conflicting directions”. “I urge this court to quash the arrest order and reinstate their police cash bails forfeited to the state,” said Mr Abdullahi. “It was not an intentional move to skip court attendance.” Lawyer Lawrence Nyagito, for Mr Kennedy Nyamao, also requested that the warrant of arrest issued to the suspect be lifted, saying he had just received a phone call from his relative informing him that he was unwell. Mr Nyagito could not, however, explain the kind of illness his client was suffering from when pressed by the Magistrate. Things turned dramatic when, as he was pleading with the court, State prosecutor Joseph Riungu disclosed that the suspect was before a High Court judge seeking to stop his prosecution. “Is your client at the High Court seeking to stop this trial or is he sick?” magistrate Kombo asked as he declined to lift the warrant of arrest and ordered that the orders first issued on Friday to remain in force. Mr Nyamao, Ms Ruth Njeri Kiiru and Mr Salim Ali Molla had moved to the High Court to stop their prosecution over the NYS scandal. In their case documents, they accused the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission and the Director of Public Prosecution of acting unreasonably as well as in bad faith for initiating their prosecution. They termed their prosecution an abuse of court process as it came four months after they recorded statements and said they were merely Devolution ministry staffers. “The EACC and DPP as decision makers in matters to do with prosecution are in breach of acting fairly for failing to attempt to prosecute the former CS,” they said. GREAT PUBLIC INTEREST The two senior government employees were set free on a bond of Sh3 million with one surety of the same amount or an alternative cash bail of Sh1 million. “The matter of NYS is of great public interest given that the woes that have bedevilled it have been talked much in the public domain, these two are also of great influence on the society,” Mr Kombo said. Mr Harakhe, Mr Noor and suspended PS Peter Mangiti are accused of conspiring to commit an economic crime, abuse of office, and wilful failure to comply with laws relating to procurement. Mr Harakhe denied that being a deputy director of NYS and the AIE holder used his office to improperly confer a benefit to Blue Star Enterprises Sh47, 600,000 to Blue Star Enterprises by executing a local purchase order No: 2481900 for the supply of Automotive Engineering training materials for NYS. The said offense was allegedly committed between March 3, 2015 and April 10, 2015 contrary to the procurement procedure. Mr Harakhe, Mr Noor and 11 others among them suspended PS Mangiti are accused of wilfully failing to comply with the law in the sense that being ministerial tender committee members, on December 16, 2014, they approved the use of a restricted tendering method in the acquisition of the said training materials. Mr Noor and seven others are also accused of awarding the tender without a technical evaluation committee on January 30, 2015. The trial case will be mentioned on December 9.   Former Devolution Principal Secretary Peter Mangiti granted Sh1m bail.