It is harvest time in the North Rift region and the usual suspects have invaded Eldoret Town, sending wives into a seasonal panic. Several women who have spoken to the Nation have expressed their fears that their husbands will lose their profits from the sale of maize and wheat to prostitutes. “We got a huge harvest and my husband lied to me that he had used all the proceeds from wheat to buy land. But when I insisted on having a look at the purchase documents, he turned violent and threatened to beat me up for questioning him,” said housewife Jemima Jepkoech. “I really suspected that he must have lavishly spent the money on prostitutes in town,” she continued. Ms Jepkoech said she helped plant, weed and harvest the wheat and maize but her husband had selfishly squandered all the money they made from the produce on sex workers. Another housewife, Peninah Rono, explains why she resents the prostitutes: “I am strongly against the sex workers as their aim is only to drain our husbands’ pockets and bank accounts.” But it is a different story with some male farmers, who have warmly welcomed the sex workers who have descended on Eldoret from across the country in all shapes and complexions. “What is the problem if we speed our hard-earned money on these beautiful women who are ready to obey us?” asked Peter Kiplimo from Moiben, Uasin Gishu. ENJOY MEN'S COMPANY And the streetwalkers appear to enjoy the company of these men. One sex worker, who came all the way from Mtwapa in Mombasa County, said she likes the men of Eldoret. “One thing I like with Eldoret is that men here are very generous and gentle. They can even give you more money than you had asked for,” she told the Nation. However, Uasin Gishu County Commissioner Abdi Hassan has warned residents to be careful when dealing with the sex workers and report any crime to the police. “It takes two to tango and we are telling not only farmers but also businessmen to be cautious with these women who are out to con [them of their] money in the name of pleasure,” said Mr Hassan. He also put the prostitutes on notice that they will be arrested if they engage in crime. He urged residents to try to improve their lives with the money they have earned instead of wasting it on pleasure. County officials also take a dim view of the sex workers, saying they deprive families of their livelihood. They also say prostitution is likely to reverse the gains made in the fight against the HIV/Aids.  