The Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has revealed that it has frozen the assets of suspects in major corruption scandals and terrorism cases running into billions of shillings. DPP Keriako Tobiko says his office has resorted to freezing the assets of corruption suspects immediately after they are put under investigation. According to Mr Tobiko, this is because suspects in high-profile cases rush to obtain orders to either stop investigations or possible prosecution after they are mentioned, resulting in delayed justice. Speaking in Naivasha, he said this had complicated the prosecution of major scandals, and the process takes ages to investigate and prosecute suspects. “Corrupt cartels are easily or rather generously obtaining orders to either stop investigations or possible prosecutions. Graft suspects are using crime proceeds to subvert justice and delay prosecutions. They are roaming free in the streets,” the DPP stated. He was speaking at the Great Rift Valley Lodge in Naivasha where directors of public prosecutions from the East African countries are holding their annual general meeting. The DPP said his office has now changed its tactics by freezing the assets of those linked to corruption, pending investigations and prosecutions. Although Mr Tobiko could not mention how much the frozen assets are worth, he said the amounts run into billions of shillings. “The model we have now adopted is that immediately an investigation commences, assets of those involved are frozen,” he said. Mr Tobiko said that in order to effectively fight the vice, asset recovery was crucial as well as jailing the suspects involved in graft. “We must hit them where it hurts most,” he said. The DPP said prosecutors handling high-profile and sensitive cases in the East African region, including corruption and terrorism, were being threatened almost daily. He regretted that not much has been done to protect prosecutors involved in handling sensitive cases, making them vulnerable. “There is nothing much done … no discussion at all on how to protect prosecutors who are the most susceptible in the whole chain,” said the DPP. He cited a case in Uganda, where a distinguished prosecutor handling a terror-related case was gunned down. Mr Tobiko's Ugandan counterpart Mike Chibita, who was present, echoed similar sentiments, saying Joan Kagezi, a lead prosecutor in the 2010 bombing that killed people watching the FIFA Word Cup Final, was gunned down in cold blood. He said Ugandan police were still looking for the killers of the renowned prosecutor, who was killed in March last year. “Initial reports suggest that part of the terrorist ring was involved in the killing. We are exploring that plot, but we have many angles we are probing,” said the Ugandan DPP. He, however, said the security of prosecutors was “paramount”, calling for cross-border cooperation between prosecutors. “It is imperative that we cooperate as we tackle major crimes including corruption and terrorism,” said Mr Chibita. The prosecutors agreed to review the legal and policy frameworks for the East African criminal justice sector. South Sudan, the newest nation in Africa, was admitted into the association, with acting Director of Public Prosecutions Deng Acuil Chol present at the Naivasha retreat.  