Ugandan police said on Tuesday that 25 more bodies had been recovered after the weekend fighting in a western kingdom whose tribal monarch is accused of stoking a separatist rebellion. The death toll is now 87. “We recovered 25 bodies from two sub-counties on Monday and a post-mortem examination is being done,” Kasese district police commander Sam Odong told AFP. Police had earlier reported that 16 police officers and 46 royal guards were killed in the fighting that broke out on Sunday in the Rwenzururu Kingdom when security forces stormed the palace to arrest King Charles Wesley Mumbere. Mumbere is accused of backing a militia, allegedly including members of his royal guard, which had launched attacks against Ugandan security forces while agitating for the creation of their own state called the Yiira Republic. He was charged with murder yesterday and remanded in prison, Uganda’s judiciary spokesman Solomon Muyita said. Meanwhile, the Ugandan government and lawmakers from the Rwenzori sub-region on Tuesday traded bitter accusations on the floor of Parliament over what triggered the flare-up. In a chaotic afternoon session, Gen Jeje Odongo, the Internal Affairs minister, presented a statement claiming that the violence was triggered by royal guards’ attacks on security installations. DISBAND CAMPS However, Kasese MPs shot back that President Yoweri Museveni had snubbed chances of peacefully defusing the situation. Gen Odongo told Parliament that the flare-up was triggered by events that followed a security meeting on November 21 after the Rwenzururu Kingdom royal guards attacked security installations to foil plans to disband their camps. But Kasese Municipality MP Robert Centenary said President Museveni and Gen Katumba Wamala, the chief of Defence Forces, ignored calls by MPs from the region to nip in the bud a potential flare-up as tension rose. “President Museveni deferred a planned meeting to discuss the situation with the Kasese district MPs early this month after Gen Katumba, the intermediary, declined to pick up calls placed to him,” said Mr Centenary. Following the failed attempts by the MPs to reach the President, tension boiled over when the Uganda People’s Defence Forces surrounded the Rwenzururu Kingdom administration offices and shot dead eight royal guards, according to Mr Centenary. “I do not understand why it is impossible for the President to grant the MPs of Kasese District time to resolve the issues but instead attack the people in a senseless and genocidal attack. The truth is that the government is not willing to find a lasting solution,” Mr Centenary said. He gave a chronology of how a delegation of five MPs from the region, including the leader of the opposition, Winnie Kiiza, tried in vain to negotiate a peaceful withdrawal of the royal guards from Buhikira Palace on Sunday. Bukonjo West MP Atkins Katusabe read a text message from the army chief sent to him at 1:01pm on Sunday afternoon, in which Gen Katumba was ordering that the royal guards vacate the Buhikira Palace with their hands up as a sign of surrender. WITHOUT DAGGERS “Honourable, I have made the following instructions: That they [royal guards] should come without their daggers, knives or pangas. They should show that their hands are free of any weapons. They should not wait for darkness,” read the text message. Before the orders could be enforced, the security forces stormed the palace. Busongora County South MP Jackson Mbaju said the royal guards were trained by police in 2012. Mr Mbaju accused the government of turning around and branding the royal guards a “militia” and “terrorists” yet they were trained by police. The MPs tabled demands before Parliament, stating that Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda, the Chief of Defence Forces and Brig Peter Elwelu, who led the raid at the palace, step aside to allow for an inquiry into the clashes. Gen Odongo told the media that persistent attacks against security forces were the reason the army attacked the palace to “disband and disarm” the attackers. “The night after the attacks against security installations, the royal guards retreated to the palace with their arms. This occasioned negotiations with security forces but they refused to hand over their weapons. "They were adamant. This left the security forces with no option but to disband the royal guards,” the minister said. Mr Centenary also demanded that government provide the exact number of casualties for both security and civilians suffered in the clashes. They also demanded that post-mortems be conducted to establish the cause of death of the victims, have the Buhikira Palace and Administration Buildings reconstructed and also guarantee the security of MPs from the Rwenzori sub-region.   President Yoweri Museveni phones the king on Sunday morning and orders him to disband the guards.