When I started talking about holding a Mwisho wa Lami summit on my house, I was not very serious. It was actually advice I had picked from my brother Pius. “The government holds very successful summits when they have a challenge and even in our office, when we are having a problem, we usually hold a deep dive or boot camp,” he told me. Although I did not understand what the two words meant, they sounded very good and strategic. “How do you conduct one?” I eagerly asked him. “Very simple,” he said. “Just create a forum where people can talk of how to resolve the problem at hand. It is very easy.” I inquired from a team of close advisers that included Nyayo, Saphire, Rasto and Alphayo and they considered it a good idea. “Maisha ni harambee,” said Rasto. “Wewe tuite tutakuja kukusaidia.” Saphire had a different reason for wanting to attend. “I have also been planning to build my semi-permanent house for over 10 years but I have not managed,” he told me. “I will be able to pick ideas on how to proceed.” I nodded, although deep down, I knew that given his camaraderie with alcohol, he will never successfully construct anything in life, even a kennel! I told two other people about the Summit but the thing took a life of its own when I mentioned it to Apostle Elkana, The Revered Spiritual Superintendent of THOAG (The Holiest of All Ghosts) Tabernacle Assembly. The Apostle was very excited, although I guess for different reasons. “This is a very good idea,” he said. “Especially because you have decided to include God in your plans.” He went on: “Had you started with God the first time, I can assure you hii nyumba ingeisha kitambo sana.” Before long, The Apostle was telling everyone whom he met that there would be prayers for my house on Friday 25th. He even announced it in church last Sunday, and invited everyone to come to my place for prayers. I only got to know about it when I started receiving congratulations from various people who go to THOAG. MAIN PROGRAMME “That’s very good news,” said Anindo, Nyayo’s wife and the current church choir master. Everyone calls her Choir Master so why should I call her Mistress? “Hata tungekuwa sisi tungeingia hiyo nyumba, nyumba ishaisha.” I knew it was not house opening but clearly, Anindo didn’t get it. I did not correct her because that would have meant that I speak to her for long, and that would put me in trouble with her husband Nyayo. Nyayo never likes her talking to another man for long. On Wednesday evening, Apostle Elkana visited me to know the progress of the planning. I told him that I had invited and expected around 10 people. “Dre wacha mchezo,” he said. “You are a popular person in this region, usiniaibishe na chakula ya watu kumi,” he said. I had not even planned to prepare any food. He called my wife and instructed her to prepare some food. Once Elkana told her the number of guests, she asked for Sh7,000. “Kwani wewe unafikiria pesa inaokotwa?” I asked her. “What is Sh7,000?” asked Apostle Elkana. “You will gain much more than the Sh7,000 in Jesus name.” I took a loan of Sh5,000 from M-Shwari but gave Fiolina Sh3,500. You don’t need an encyclopedia to know where the rest went to. “Hiyo itatosha,” I told her. On Thursday, I hired a tent and pitched it at the construction site. I spent the same day with the boys in my house cleaning up the place. Rather than hire chairs, Friday morning, with the boys, we walked from home to home borrowing chairs. Knowing how our people gate crash events in Mwisho wa Lami, Fiolina had spent the whole of Thursday night preparing mahenjera. On Friday morning, she started preparing food for the high table. My sister Caro, and her sisters too had visited us to help her with preparations. Guests started arriving at 10a.m. By 12, Saphire, Rasto, Nyayo, the entire Hitler’s crew came. Also around was Ali, my first fundi and Kizito, a deputy HM in a neighbouring school. Juma and Kwame, two former teachers at our school also came. So did Mr Lutta. “Some of us have never been in the house,” said Juma. “Please take us round.” I eagerly took them round, room after room. They were all impressed and kept asking many questions. Clearly, they had never seen such a big house. Ali, who had been my first fundi, kept pointing out the mistakes that he blamed on Nyayo’s workmanship. “This wall must come down,” he said when we were in the bedroom. “There is a big crack there.” “Hi haiwezi anguka,” Nyayo said. “Hata wewe jaribu kusukuma uone kama itaangunka.” Ali tried to push it but it didn’t give in. Juma supported Nyayo. “Such cracks are normal. Even the standard gauge railway has cracks sembuse hii?” He showed us on his phone photos of cracks on the big railway that is being built from Mombasa. “Kama kitu ya billions inacrack, hii ya maelfu itakosa?” Wondered Rasto. “Very good work Nyayo.” The main programme started at around noon. I asked Juma to lead it and he quickly accepted. “We all know why we are here,” he said after some introductions. “We are here to congratulate our brother for what he has done so far and advise him how he can quickly finish the project.” “This project is finished,” said Saphire. Rasto and Alphayo agreed with him. “Kazi kidogo imebaki hapa,” said Alphayo. “Nunua mabati ufunike bedroom uanze kuishi hapa.” “Na kama hauna pesa ya mabati tufanye harambee ya haraka haraka,” added Kizito. “Kuna mabati tayari,” said Nyayo. “Ni mbao tu zinahitajika.” WAITING FOR A MIRACLE Apostle Elkana arrived shortly after. As usual, he was accompanied by a retinue of church leaders. He took over the programme from Juma. He said the main prayer, then led everyone into praying from room to room, asking God to bless me as I start staying in the house. He made a final prayer and asked for people to start giving their presents. There were all manner of presents: glasses, plates, spoons, nails, a padlock, a picture frame while a few teachers gave envelopes. There were also bananas, potatoes, chicken and other food stuffs from the women. “We hope that with what we have received, Dre will be in this house before Christmas, Halleluiah!” Everyone answered “Amen!” He called Ali and Nyayo and told them to start work on Monday. “Kwa jina la Mungu nyumba itaisha!” he said as he prayed for them. “Amen!” everyone answered. It was time for food. A high table for teachers and church elders had been set inside the tent where they took ugali, beef and chicken. There was also tea and bread. Outside, everyone else survived on strong tea and mahenjera. Guests started leaving but I noticed Apostle Elkana was in no hurry. He stayed back to offer special prayers particularly for the gifts. He asked that we open the envelopes. “We must pray for it so that kama mtu amepeana pesa na roho chafu tutoe hiyo bahati mbaya,” he said. He was right, my mother had warned me about envelopes. “If you have received anything on M-Pesa let me know we pray together. Bensouda, Nzomo and Madam Ruth had sent me a total of Sh1,200 on M-Pesa. I only declared Sh250. We got about Sh3,650 after opening all envelopes which Apostle Elkana prayed for. “Ah, hapa nyumba imeisha,” he said after prayers, I told him it may not be enough to buy timber but he told me to have faith. “Mungu hawachi watu wake,” he said. I still do not know how he convinced me or what hit me but I gave him Sh500 as sadaka to the church and another Sh500 to thank him for presiding over the summit. “A miracle will happen Dre,” he said. “The fundis will be here on Monday to complete the house. Amen.” Yesterday, I went to the hardware to find out the price of timber and was surprised at how expensive it is. I did not buy any. Later on last evening, I received an SMS from Ali asking me if I had bought timber so that he can start roofing the bedroom tomorrow. I said ‘yes’, for I believe a miracle will happen. Amen!  