Why would politicians fight over the military? Listen, the reason that flag flutters in the wind on a flagpole, vehicle or building anywhere in Kenya is because it is protected. It is protected by young men and women in uniform who will dig their noses and eyes in the sand; bury their mouths and chins in mud; crawl on their stomachs with guns in hands and loads on backs, to protect our independence. The reason neighbours know our borders and respect them or dispute them but cannot walk in and claim territory, is because they are defended. They are defended by men and women in uniform who will duck bullets, dodge minefields, dive into thickets, jump into and out of trenches and walk, jog and run to seize and defend territory. The reason politicos flaunt our sovereignty and boast about Kenya’s territorial integrity is because they are defended at any time and all the time. They are defended by the army, the air force and the navy whose men and women march, fly and sail into harm’s way at the command of the Commander-in-Chief in the service of Kenya’s interests. When President Kibaki was persuaded beyond a shadow of doubt that al-Shabaab threatened Kenya’s economy, quite apart from violating its territorial integrity and sovereignty, he commanded the young men and women in uniform into battle in Somalia in October of 2011. Kenya had not fought since the secessionist Shifta War immediately after independence. DISTINGUISHED ITSELF But Kenya’s military has distinguished itself in peacekeeping missions and, therefore, a force of good in Bosnia, East Timor, Sierra Leone and Namibia to name but four. On such missions Kenya’s soldiers have projected the discipline and diligence, power and prestige of the country’s military and governance to the world. Now, that there can only be one C-in-C of Kenya’s military is indisputable; that the C-in-C is President Kenyatta is incontestable; and that the President has the latest update on Kenya’s security and stays ahead of any politician in this regard is irrefutable. Does this, then, mean only the President can talk about Kenya’s military and nobody else should have or express an opinion on it? I have read the UN report on last July’s violence in Juba, which so angered Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon he last month fired Lt-Gen Kimani Ondieki, who commanded the peacekeeping mission in South Sudan. The report basically indicts the Kenyan for incompetence because the blue berets failed to secure and protect UN compounds and personnel. I have read the unusually angry retaliatory responses from Nairobi and opposition kingpin Raila Odinga’s opportunistic statements in response to the President. Nairobi takes unprecedented umbrage in, and makes a racket of, the way its general was fired; refuses to name his replacement; and, instead, withdraws its peacekeepers. Mr Odinga faults the withdrawal and accuses the President of acting unilaterally and in blind rage. INTO FRAY Deputy President William Ruto reflexively jumps into the fray, angrily accusing Mr Odinga of politicising the military. Only the President can speak on the security of Kenya, he orders. An official statement from the Presidency accuses Mr Odinga of ignorance, because he is not a member of the National Security Council, and, predictably, of politicising the military. Really? One, Mr Odinga cannot usurp the role of C-in-C nor turn the military against him. Simply, he thinks the President acted in haste, in error and in anger to Lt-Gen Ondieki’s abrupt sacking. He is persuaded that hurt Nairobi’s international standing. Two, questioning the wisdom of a presidential edict on a detachment on a UN mission, and fearing the decision may hurt Kenya’s international image, does not politicise the military. Kenya’s military is politically aware, but determinedly keeps off politics because the two don’t mix. Therefore, the military will not dabble in politics because Mr Odinga has criticised a presidential pronouncement. Indeed, seeking to make capital out of the President’s edict may momentarily politicise Lt-Gen Ondieki’s dismissal, but not the institution of the military or profession of soldiering. Criticism of the C-in-C cannot cause even a chink in this impregnable fortress of opaqueness. Last, rather than get angry at Mr Odinga, Nairobi should worry that it is increasingly coming across as an angry, or quick-to-anger, government.  wkopanga@gmail.com  