On November 9, the world woke up to the shocking news of the election of Donald Trump as president of the United States. It appears the American Electoral College system preferred the tycoon with no public office experience to Hillary Clinton, who has more than 30 years in public office and international affairs. Many commentators have said that this was a vote against the Washington establishment, but it was also a vote that carried misogynistic and racial undertones. The choice of Donald Trump would not have come as a surprise if observers had carefully reflected on what has been happening in America for the past 20 years or so. The majority of those who voted for Donald Trump were from rural suburbs that had lost their manufacturing jobs to foreign countries due to globalisation and comparative advantage. The next critical reason is the declining literacy rate of Americans. According to the latest study conducted by the National Institute of Literacy in April 2016, 14 per cent of Americans (32 million) cannot read and write. The exit polls indicated that over 80 per cent of those who voted for Trump did not have a college education. This population could not relate to Hillary Clinton, and certainly does not understand the effects of globalisation and thus fell for Trump’s message that he can “fix” America. Donald Trump was also able to resonate with white males, who feel disenfranchised as the population of minorities in America has increased. In the past 20 years, the minority population has doubled, in some states even surpassing 50 per cent of the population. This has left the white population less dominant. They wanted a return of the “great America” they grew up believing their country was and so welcomed Trump’s call for an overhaul of immigration policies. Finally, there were the patriarchal undertones that made Americans feel uncomfortable with the idea of a female president. Although the US is a super power that preaches democracy and equal rights, in practice, among developed nations, America remains one of the most unequal societies in terms of opportunities for women and minorities. For example, a research conducted in 2015 showed that the American population did not think that women could be effective political leaders because they lacked stamina and were judged more harshly. Clearly, these are the issues that were used against Hillary Clinton. In spite of her impressive credentials, she was not trusted and was harshly judged even though the electorate did not seem to have any issues with Trump’s obviously less savoury character. There are many parallels between the American and Kenyan electorates. Like the Americans, we elect rich people and do not question how they acquired their wealth or if they are qualified for leadership positions. This is prevalent among the poor and lowly educated. We, like the Americans, are uncomfortable with women leaders and judge them more harshly. In 2012, I argued in an article published in the Daily Nation that the former Deputy Chief Justice, Ms Nancy Baraza, although she had committed an offence, was more harshly judged because of her gender. Men who commit similar or even worse offences while in public office rarely face the kind of condemnation that Ms Baraza did. We have vilified white supremacists for their anti-immigrant sentiments. However, a recent report by the National Cohesion and Integration Commission states that 32 of the 47 counties flout constitutional provisions and the County Government Act in appointments and promotions, discriminating against non-dominant communities, women, and people with disabilities. In this age of globalisation, homogenous communities are fast disappearing. Having diverse communities means there is a risk of increased ethnic/racial tensions, but if managed well, diversity can enhance a country’s competitive advantage. To minimise global conflicts, we must learn to be more inclusive and tolerant. The writer is a lecturer at the Kenya School of Government. betty.gachire@ksg.ac.ke  