The ongoing drought in various parts of the country has claimed the life of a herder in Isiolo. Merti deputy county commissioner Julius Maiyo said the 50-year-old man died on Thursday due to dehydration while heading to Korbesa from Duma. The deceased was in the company of a fellow herder who braved the rough terrain and thirst to report the death to the chief’s office. The prolonged drought has also resulted in the drying up of River Ewaso Ng’iro which is the main source of water for pastoralists in the county. The National Drought Management Authority says 55,000 people in Isiolo are in dire need of food. The authority’s county coordinator Lordman Lekalkuli said the drought was expected to worsen in December due to depressed rainfall. Another 45,000 people in need of food in the region have already been placed under Action Aid’s Food for Asset Programme. Schools and health facilities are the most hit, according to the authority. Already, five schools in Oldonyiro ward have been affected. Before closing, pupils from Kawalash, Noloroi and Lengenyi were forced to carry water from their homes. Drought-hit areas of Oldonyiro, Iresaboru, Badana, Korbesa, Duma and Sericho are facing an acute water shortage with locals calling on the county government to intervene. However, no livestock have died due to drought. EMERGENCY PLAN In Kilifi, more than 1,000 hunger-stricken households have been placed under an emergency four-month cash plan. Each of the families will receive Sh6,000 monthly to buy food beginning next week in the plan by the county and the Kenya Red Cross Society. The scheme is a deviation from the traditional relief food supply where the needy are supplied with maize, beans, cooking oil and other items. Kilifi Governor Amason Kingi said residents from the hardest-hit areas of Ganze and Bamba will benefit from the plan. More than 250,000 people face starvation in the county. Kenya Red Cross Society regional coordinator Hassan Musa said the move to divert from the usual food donation to money transfers resulted from the need to cut logistical expenses and grow local economies in hunger-stricken areas. “A lot of money that is supposed to help fight hunger is usually wasted on logistics and the process of looking for service providers,” he said. He said the tendering process is usually long and tiresome and the new system would see the cost reduced by upto 98 per cent. “The money saved from logistics will be given to the most vulnerable people resulting in the amount rising from Sh200 to Sh6,000,” said the Red Cross official. In September, the county government introduced a similar cash transfer plan involving about 2,000 elderly people above 65 with each of them receiving Sh2,000 per month.  Reported by Vivian Jebet, Daniel Nyassy and Charles Lwanga.  