Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua has declared support for President Uhuru Kenyatta's re-election in 2017. At the same time, she has reiterated her intention to gun for the Kirinyaga governorship but on the Narc-Kenya ticket, a party she said "will not join Jubilee to form an alliance". Speaking at Kianyaga Catholic Church in Gichugu on Thursday, Ms Karua said she had decided to back Mr Kenyatta because he is the choice of Kirinyaga people. "My party will not be fielding a presidential candidate in 2017 and the residents from this region want Mr Kenyatta to go back to State House. I have no problem with that," she told the 400 Narc-Kenya delegates at the church's hall. GRAFT FIGHT "They should elect him to complete his two terms." Further, Ms Karua said she supported President Kenyatta's fight against corruption. "President Kenyatta is doing his best to fight corruption and I fully support his endeavours," she said. "I will join hands with the President to fight graft in the country. Everyone should back efforts by the Head of State," she added. Her announcement came as a surprise to many because Ms Karua has been a fierce critic of the Jubilee government, especially on how it has handled the war on corruption, electoral reforms and the rule of law. UHURU RECOGNITION The former Justice minister and Gichugu MP has also been working with the Opposition to exert pressure on the Jubilee government and check its excesses. Ms Karua said Narc-Kenya would sponsor candidates for ward, MP, woman rep, senatorial and gubernatorial seats across the country. She promised to serve all without discrimination if elected the Kirinyaga governor, adding that she would invest in the health and transport sectors that she said were in "pathetic conditions". "I'm a workaholic and everyone knows that. Even President Uhuru recognised me during Mashujaa Day as a heroine. I will transform Kirinyaga into an economic hub if elected," she said. Ms Karua told her rivals to brace themselves for a bruising battle in the next polls. HAT IN THE RING "I have thrown my hat in the ring and it will be a tough ride for my opponents," she said. She dismissed as untrue claims that she will form a super alliance with the Raila Odinga-led Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord). "There was a report in the social media that I will form a super alliance with Cord. This false and the information should be ignored. Narc-Kenya is not going to form an alliance with any coalition," she said. Her declaration to work with Mr Kenyatta is also a blow to former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru, who is also eyeing the Kirinyaga governorship on a Jubilee Party ticket.  