Kenyans who are true friends of development must be sad at the massive theft of funds at National Youth Service, where someone withdrew in one go more money than I will ever touch in my entire career (even if I did the job in three lifetimes); and the alleged theft at the Ministry of Health. Quite unimaginable sums of amounts stolen. While such theft is in the public domain, I wish to tell you that there are many other thieves out there that are not known, but whose thieving has much more devastating effectS on people’s lives. Like Tito, the sole proprietor of Busy Bee Academy. I can tell you for free that if there is one person that should occupy the prison spaces left vacant after  the President ordered the release of petty offenders recently, Tito is one of them. Some people may have taken stolen money from the entire Kenya people, meaning that we share the burden and loss, but Tito took away money from one individual – yours truly. Between the two of them, it is Toto’s theft that affected me more. The other stole from government. And government is rich anyway! Tito’s thieving tendency is something we should have noted long ago, and acted. A few years ago, when he was an untrained teacher, we all knew that he did not deserve to be a teacher. Having garnered a strong D+ at Mwisho wa Lami secondary, we did not think that he was qualified to share a parade with intellectuals like myself. But as we would later learn, he had parted with something to Juma, the then HM, to inorder to get a job. Indeed, his salary was highest than that of other board teachers, and it was rumoured that he gave Juma a certain percentage every month. Tito’s troubles began when Bensouda landed. Long before Bensouda reported, it had been know that Tito was having an affair with Sandra, one of the candidates. Juma had known that all along but never took action. After all, Juma, a senior teacher and HM, had married from the staffroom of Mwisho wa Lami, how could he stop a junior teacher from marrying a student from the same school? No sooner had Bensouda arrived than Tito’s ways were discovered, and he left school with a few weeks, and married Sandra. Bensouda tried to pursue the case with the ministry and the police but Tito was too smart for her, he covered his tracks well. Dispute not qualifying, Tito was a clerk in the last General Election, and your guess is as good as mine on how he got the job. GOOD MONEY He used the money he earned for the elections to set up Busy Bee Academy, a school he uses to do many things. Currently, he is the main supplier of books and other items to several schools in Mwisho wa Lami and beyond. He is now a much sought-after man by most school heads, as he is known to “treat” school heads well. My first official interaction with him was last year during the teachers strike when I took Branton to study at his school. Busy Bee Academy is apparently a cheap school – until you admit you child there. (I must mention here that Branton is not my son though). Once there, they starts adding charges that were never mentioned: lunch, uniform, swimming (in River Lukose) graduation fees and graduation gown. It is no wonder that I moved Branton from that school long ago. Some people say that I could not afford it. That may be true but the real reason was that I could not accept to be exploited in broad daylight. Even as disliked Tito, I admired him for his eye for money and entreprenual spirit. That is why within a few years, he is one of the richest people around, owning several boda boda motorcycles and he is one of the few people you can trust to always have Sh1,000 at any one time. That is a great feat! So when I had this idea of KCPE tuition, this was the man I knew would help make the matter a reality. Of course, I had heard stories of him not paying his teachers and his boda boda staff, but if I wanted to my idea to work, this was the best person. And I was not wrong, for once I shared the idea with Tito, he swung into action. He made a classroom available with all the relevant teaching materials, made fliers that he distributed, and made himself and Sandra available to handle all the logistics. I only came in to teach, and once he had attended to two of my classes, Tito became an expert of revision, and started handling the extra classes. We were making good money – everyone could see that. Classes were full and parents were passing by Tito’s office before bringing their children to class. They weren’t passing there to read the Bible, they were paying! Knowing how I am weak with money, I decided not to pester Tito with the money, I wanted them to give my share as a lumpsum at the end of the exercise. I had already engaged the hardware owner and once I got the money I would go pay for some materials and continue with my house building journey. But signs of trouble started on prayer day. Despite the fact that I was behind the idea, and even invited Apostle Elkana, The Revered Spiritual Superintendent of THOAG (The Holiest of All Ghosts) Tabernacle Assembly, we disagreed at the time of payment. I had to pay the Apostle from my pocket. Tito claimed to have spent all the money on food. On asking him for my full payment, he requested that we speak last Monday. I was at his place on Monday morning, but instead of getting paid, Tito suggested that we remain close to the candidates until the exam are done. After their rehearsals, they came to the academy for final preparations, and also came on Tuesday and Wednesday evenings for further revision. I can tell you from what we gathered, these candidates will pass the exams with flying colours. After the session with the candidates, Tito took me to Hitler’s. LIST OF EXPENSES “You have worked hard the last three weeks,” he told me. Hitler was under firm instructions to give Tito all my bills. I was expecting payments on Thursday after KCPE but Tito was evasive, he was unreachable on phone and was not at his home. I was at his place early Friday morning but did not find him. I went back there several times. We only met at around 2pm but he said that his phone was charging, and promised to send me my money that evening once he got his phone. “Wewe ngoja utaona tu,” he said when I asked him how much it was that he would send me. At around 6pm, I received an SMS. It was from M-Pesa and I was excited. To my shock, Tito had sent me Sh450 “Come I will show you the collections and expenses,” he said when I called him to protest. “Hata mimi sijabaki na kitu.” When I went to see him, he took me through his books of accounts. It was clear he had underreported the collections. “Dre most of the parents did not pay, and those who paid did not pay in full,” he said. “And why did we allow their children?” I asked. “I have been in this business long,” he said. “You allow more so that others parents can know it’s a serious school and bring their children. You know Mwisho wa Lami. This place has no money and parents do not pay.” Then we went to the expenses. He had indicated expenses for rent, printing, chalk, dusters, books, desks and even administration fees that included salary to Sandra. “What do you mean Tito,” I wondered. “You are charging rent and even salary for Sandra?” Sandra’s pay was more than I had received although he claimed that the amount was a mistake. “Why did you bring the tuition here Dre?” he asked. “Because we have the facilities! And these things don’t not come free, they were constructed and are maintained.” He went on: “And Sandra worked more than you,” he said. “She was always here planning things.” It was difficult to argue with Tito. He had used me and stolen from me in broad daylight. Plain and simple. Dejected, I walked to Hitler’s where I spent all the money. If at all the lady who stole millions from a very rich government should be put in jail, then Tito who stole thousands from a very poor teacher like me should be sent to hell!  