At the recent Usanifu National Creative Economy Conference, it was quite evident that the creative sector has come of age. For the first time, practitioners engaged the national government on the economics of creativity. Often seen as disorganised, the sector came through as focused and fully aware of its potential as a business. It also depicted deep knowledge of the role of art in expressing the human condition, advancing freedom of expression, educating, and providing individual enjoyment. That is why the Kenya Film Classification Board’s proposals in the Films, Stage Plays and Publications Draft Bill, 2016, have come as a shock to practitioners. The board has given the impression that its proposals are to amend the Film and Stage Performances Act Cap 222, but this is not the case. The draft Bill seeks to introduce a new repressive law. The form and content of the Bill shows that it is a new law. Clause 87 of the draft Bill repeals Cap 222, which establishes the Kenya Film Classification Board. The board is re-established in Clause 4 of the draft Bill. The board, a State corporation, has no mandate to spearhead the formulation of laws. That is the role of the Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Arts. Further, the sector has always been against CAP 222 and argued that it should be repealed. But the process should be constitutional. EXPAND MANDATE In the draft Bill the board is trying to expand its mandate to regulating films, broadcast content, stage performances, outdoor media, gaming applications, videos, print publications, and the whole array of sub-sectors that fall under the cultural and creative industries. The board is trying to take over the functions of other bodies and control events in the counties. It appears not to be aware that the implementation of policies on art and culture is a devolved function. The proposed law undermines the Constitution of Kenya. Article 34 of the Constitution is clear. The freedom and independence of electronic, print, and all other types of media is guaranteed and is only limited in the case of propaganda for war, incitement to violence, hate speech, and advocacy of hatred. The Constitution bars the State from exercising control over or interfering with any person engaged in broadcasting, production or circulation of publications, or dissemination of information by any medium. The State cannot penalise any person for any opinion or view or the content of any broadcast, publication, or dissemination. These prohibitions are precisely what the board wants to introduce in the creative sector. STIFF CONDITIONS The Draft Bill introduces stiff conditions of operation and penalties. According to the Bill, you are not permitted to improvise lines on stage. Before you utter those lines, you must go back to the board for approval. You will not develop a gaming application whose text is not approved at every stage. This is contrary to Article 47 of the Constitution, which gives every Kenyan the right to expeditious, efficient, lawful, reasonable, and procedurally fair administrative action. The requirements of this law will undermine the creative process because they are cumbersome and injurious. They are not facilitative. The creative industry is not opposed to regulation but would like to see this undertaken within the confines of the Constitution. The role of the State should be to facilitate the growth of the sector and not to undermine it through legislation. There is no doubt that even in the absence of a conducive policy and legislative framework, the creative industry is vibrant. It is making critical contributions to economic growth and social development. It not only creates employment opportunities and secures livelihoods, it also drives innovation in other sectors such as tourism, agriculture, and financial services. The Ministry of Sports, Culture and the Arts needs to take charge of the creative sector before it is undermined by a State corporation that is expansionist in attitude and limited in its understanding of the role of creativity, innovation, and free expression in economic and social development.  Prof Kimani Njogu is chairman, Creative Economy Working Group and director, Twaweza Communications Center. kimani.njogu@gmail.com  