Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto has accused President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto of using police to silence him for his campaign against the Jubilee Party. Mr Ruto spoke when he stopped at trading centres along the Narok-Mai Mahiu road. He was admitted to a South African Hospital for a week after he said he was hit by a teargas canister. Other people said he was hit by a stone. The governor was injured during fracas between his supporters and those of National Assembly Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso at Silibwet in Bomet Central during a football match two weeks ago. The governor, who was accompanied by Kuresoi South MP Zakayo Cheruiyot and Emurua Dikirr MP Johanah Ng’eno, thanked Kenyans for praying for him and cracked a few jokes, making light of the injury he suffered near his right eye. He made stopovers in Suswa, Ntulele, Narok Town, Ololung’a, before being welcomed by his supporters in Mulot on the Narok-Bomet border, the culmination of which will be a prayer rally at Bomet Stadium on Sunday. He used the occasion to scoff at Jubilee administration over rampant corruption in government and called on Kenyans to vote them out in next year’s elections. HIS BANDWAGON Mr Ruto poured cold water on the newly formed Jubilee Party saying residents were more assured of better governance under his political bandwagon, Chama Cha Mashinani, a party he says will fight for devolution. But some leaders from the South Rift have stated that the Jubilee Party will receive overwhelming support in the region and cautioned those opposing it that they would be swept into political oblivion. Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso, Narok Governor Samuel Tunai, MPs Bernard Bett (Bomet East), Ronald Tonui (Bomet Central), Ken Kiloku (Narok East), and Narok Leader of Majority Letulal ole Masikonde have vowed to market the Jubilee Party across the region. But addressing a crowd in Narok town, the Bomet governor told residents that Jubilee had lost focus and is hoodwinking Kenyans with political sideshows. He added that Kenyans should hold the President and his deputy directly responsible for the rampant corruption in government. “I therefore urge Kenyans to ensure change by voting in fresh people in the government come the General Election. The national government is a letdown to devolution,’ said Mr Ruto. When he spoke, Mr Cheruiyot said that since independence, public resources have been shared among the few wealthy people at the expense of poor Kenyans and this is what needs to be addressed in order to promote equitable distribution of public funds. “Ordinary Kenyans are suffering because Jubilee had money that ended up in the pockets of few powerful individuals in government and that is why we are asking you to vote this government out in 2017,” said Mr Cheruiyot.  