Clad in an oversized navy blue coat, a red and black beanie hat, a grey trouser and blue slippers, Joseph Mwangi Macharia appears ill at ease as we approach his former home in Chagayia, Timboroa, Uasin Gishu County. The last time he was here was eight years ago. And the memories of a place he once called home haunt him to date. After slowly alighting from the vehicle, Mzee Macharia limps hurriedly towards one corner of what used to be his compound. “It is here,” the 74-year-old says, pointing to a mound on the ground covered by grass and shrubbery. It is here that seven members of his family, whose lives were brutally cut short by a group of youth armed with crude weapons during the 2008 post-election violence, are buried. Those buried here include Macharia’s wife, Miriam Njoki Mwangi, daughter Milkah Nyambura and his two grandchildren Joseph Mwangi and Miriam Njoki. Others are his sons Pharis Macharia Mwangi and Daniel Irungu Mwangi, both casual labourers, and Joel Ngechu, who had just sat his Kenya Certificate for Primary Education examination. Their bodies, he says, were hastily buried on January 7, 2008 in a shallow mass grave by neighbours who immediately fled the area, fearing for their lives. The bodies were later exhumed on April 27, 2008, and accorded a decent burial. SAME SPOT When we visited the homestead earlier this week, we saw two mud walled houses erected at the same spot where Mzee Macharia’s houses that were reduced to ashes by the attackers, stood. Someone else has clearly moved into the compound but this does not seem to bother the old man who swears he will not return to the area again. “I have moved on. I’m not coming back here,” Mzee Macharia tells the Nation. He narrates how his family members were killed in the attack that occurred on December 31, 2007. “It was around 5pm and we were all at home. We had celebrated Christmas together as a family and were looking forward to the New Year’s celebrations,” he says. “Suddenly a group of more than 40 people stormed my home. They did not tell us anything. They were chanting war songs. Out of the blue, they attacked us. They shot at us using arrows, killing the seven instantly. Others were slaughtered with machetes. I don’t know why they picked on them,” he adds, fighting back tears. The violence, he says, erupted immediately after Mr Mwai Kibaki was declared winner of the 2007 presidential elections. Mzee Macharia says he watched everything that happened from his garden situated a few metres from the main house. “After the attack, they swept my house clean and drove away my three donkeys, 11 cows and 20 sheep. They also burnt down a store where we had kept maize and burnt all the eight houses in my homestead before fleeing,” he adds. “At around 11pm, after the attackers had fled, I heard my one and half year grandchild crying. She had survived the attack. I took her in my arms and we sought refuge at the Chagaiya AP camp.” “We then moved to the Koibatek DO’s office.” PAY HIM Mzee Karanja, who currently lives with Mr Paul Karanja, his son-in-law in Eldoret town, wants the government to pay him Sh7 million as compensation for his loss. He said efforts to seek help from relevant authorities had hit a brick wall. “I have presented — to the relevant authorities — valid documents ranging from police abstracts on the losses I incurred in the wake of the clashes. But despite this, all my pleas have landed on deaf ears,” he says. Asked why he is making the demands now, he replies: “I did not have anyone to guide me. I was confused. I lost hope. This thing really affected me.” Mr Karanja concurs. “I took him in in 2012 after his health started deteriorating,” he says. “Mzee had no one to show him direction after he lost his family. He was a confused man. I took him in since he is my father-in-law and started seeking help.” And as the country gears up to next year’s General Election, Mzee Macharia says he has forgiven those behind the attack but has not forgotten what they did to him. “Yes I have forgiven all those who killed my seven family members and left me with only two children but again how can I forget this heinous act when none of them has come to me to seek for forgiveness?” he poses. He is now calling upon political leaders to be cautious with their public utterances ahead of the August 2017 polls.  