The government on Tuesday assured the public that the ambitious multibillion Standard Gauge Railway (SGR) was intact after floods swept away a section of the project in Makueni County. The situation had been assessed and changes proposed to avert similar occurrences in the future, Transport Principal Secretary Irungu Nyakera said in a statement. A section of a protection slope at Kambu area was washed away when heavy rains pounded the area on Friday night last week. The flood relief culvert was blocked by sand, boulders and debris gathered form water that was channelled to the site, Mr Nyakera explained. “The water in the channel formed a big dam upstream, which upon attaining a certain height, washed away the service road embankment,” Mr Nyakera said. But even with the damage, Mr Nyakera said, all was looking up for the SGR. He said that the SGR contractor, China Road and Bridge Corporation and a supervisory team had been on the ground since the incident to ensure timely restoration. “We wish to assure the public that the structure of the underpass, and indeed the SGR line, remains intact,” he said. To save similar future occurrences, Mr Nyakera said, the contractor will replace the three lines of 600 millimetre diameter pipe culverts with a concrete drift to allow passage of vehicular traffic along the service road, as well as storm water. “The whole drainage system along the SGR will be completed for efficient functionality to ensure that similar occurrences do not happen after the project is completed,” Mr Nyakera explained. Further, the PS said, the contractor will erect warning signs on either side of the drift to alert motorists on safety precautions during heavy rains. At the location that was washed away, the ministry said, there were various works ongoing including fencing of the SGR corridor, trimming of side slopes, and the communication, signalling and electric cable works. Others were the development of the drainage works, and the construction of road over rail bridges.  