Laikipia North MP Mathew Lempurkel and nominated MP Sara Korere on Monday engaged in a fist fight at the Interior Ministry offices. They were later forced out of the building and taken to the Parliament Police Station, where they recorded statements. The two got into an altercation at the office of Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery. Sources said they had been summoned by the minister to discuss local security matters in Laikipia County and to try to resolve a long-standing feud between them. But while at Mr Nkaissery's boardroom, they started exchanging words, which quickly degenerated into a physical fight. Mr Lempurkel said when he arrived at the offices, the minister was in another meeting, so he was directed to wait for him at the VIP lounge on sixth floor of Harambee House. “At around 12.30pm, when Mr Nkaissery finished the meeting, he sent me a message telling me to go see him and when I was almost leaving, I met Laikipia West MP Wachira Karani, who asked me to go meet some people at the boardroom,” said Mr Lempurkel. He said that when he got to the boardroom, Ms Korere, who was seated in one corner, started hurling insults at him when he inquired why a whole group from Laikipia was at Mr Nkaissery's office. TRIED TO DEFEND MYSELF “Ms Korere started insulting me and rose trying to slap me, and when I tried to defend myself, everyone who was in the room turned against me and beat me up,” he said. He said the group that beat him up was made up of members of the county assembly (MCAs) and other leaders.   “I sustained injuries on my head, wrist and chest. I was taken to Parliament Police Station, where I recorded a statement before going to the Karen Hospital,” said Mr Lempurkel, adding that he was admitted to the hospital because doctors needed to do some tests because he had fallen unconscious earlier. Mr Lempurkel said he recognised some of the MCAs who beat him up, claiming that one of the reps who assaulted him was Sosian Ward MCA Jacob Edung. Ms Korere could not be reached for comment, as her phone went unanswered. It was not immediately established if the nominated MP, who previously hit headlines for breastfeeding in Parliament, was taken to hospital too. Nairobi County deputy police commander Richard Kerich said investigations into the matter had started. The two have been engaged in supremacy wars. Ms Korere, who is seeking to unseat Mr Lempurkel, was nominated on a Jubilee ticket, while Mr Lempurkel was elected on an ODM ticket.  