Commission for administration of justice (Ombudsman) has opposed a move by the government to turn Kenya Technical Trainers College (KTTC) in Gigiri into United Nations Complex. CAJ chairman Otiende Amollo now wants Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i to withdraw or suspend a letter directing the institution to be relocated to Kenya Science Campus by Thursday next week. Kenya Science campus is a constituent of University of Nairobi situated along Ngong road. Mr Amollo said the government will be in breach of the law if it allows the transfer of KTTC premises to the UN. “We note with concern that if that is the case, then the government will be in breach of the law that govern public land. The regime of acquiring public land is clear: it is held in trust by the national or county government and transferred with the approval of the National Land Commission. Beyond issues of transfer, there is need to compensate those affected,” said Mr Amollo during a press conference. According to Dr Matiang’i, the government is honouring its international obligations and commitments to the United Nations by granting them the land to cater for the expansion of the UN Complex in Kenya. “The decision is also pursuant to various constitutional values and principles on economical and efficient application of public resources in a matter that best protects the overall interests of the Kenyans,” said the Cabinet Secretary in a letter dated November 8, to Mr Amollo. CAJ now wants a task force comprising of all stakeholders, including CAJ, University of Nairobi, Kenya Science Campus, KTTC, Ministry of Education, National Land Commission, Nairobi County Government and student union officials to be constituted to look into the government decision. Dr Matiang’i hit out at CAJ accusing it of delving into the matter that has no complainant and also for taking a position even before listening to the Ministry. “It is notable that prior to hearing out the ministry, the CAJ has already made adverse inferences against the ministry’s decision and the process involved,” said Dr Matiang’i. He went on: “To my mind, none of the named institutions (reported to have made presentation to you) — being government bodies — have raised a petition or brought their questions and or suggestions being fronted by CAJ, to my ministry. I believe that at this stage, if there was any merit in the issues reportedly under discussion, these could have come up through an internal administrative process.” He maintained that the two entities are government institutions and appropriate notices have been issued to the University of Nairobi and the KTTC. “A joint taskforce — in which the University of Nairobi and Ministry of Education are represented — is in place to steer the transfer and implementation of this decision,” added the CS. Mr Amollo said CAJ had interrogated the fairness of the directive in respect to procedures, and impact it will have on Kenyans more so the primary stakeholders. “The manner in which the information was shared to critical stakeholders was rather casual and inconsistent. The CS wrote a rather terse letter to the Chairperson of the University of Nairobi Council communicating the decision but there was no direct communication to the Vice-Chancellor and the Principal of the Kenya Science Campus,” he said. He said the decision to relocate the two campuses has adverse effects on students, teaching and non-teaching staff and their families, and communities where the institutions are located, among others. “The planned move comes at a time when students at Kenya Science Campus are set to begin their end of semester examinations. Besides the immediate impact, the relocation will in the long run disrupt academic programmes for continuing students. It is also important to note that the two institutions are distinct, with peculiar facilities. Moving one to the premises of the other will not profit the students,” he added. He said Kenya Science is home to 1,138 students 576 of who are resident and 140 staff members who reside at the campus’s premises. “On the other hand, KTTC has 2,400 students (of who 504 are resident) and 319 staff members who reside within the college with 281 of their family members. In addition, the college has a kindergarten that serves the community within and without,” he added. Mr Amollo insisted that the relocation will not only affect the primary stakeholders – students and staff – but will have economic and psychological effects on their families and communities. It will affect schooling of children, and may render some workers redundant. He said there are heavy inputs in terms of investments at both institutions that must be put into consideration. “Since acquiring Kenya Science Campus, the University of Nairobi has spent Sh1.7 billion to put up specialised labs, lecture theatres and installing equipment. This is in addition to facilities the campus already had before acquisition,” said Mr Amollo. He added that KTTC is equally well equipped with specialised labs and equipment for technical training. “Moreover, the college is currently engaged in a Public-Private Partnership (PPP) to finance, build and operate students’ accommodation for 4,500 students at a cost of Sh5 billion, and, therefore, the need to consider not just the investments made but also opportunity cost. Some of the developments have been funded by donors,” said the chairman.  