The door was on Thursday slammed shut on politicians rushing to acquire quick degrees before next year’s General Election. A directive by President Uhuru Kenyatta on Thursday said university students must meet the minimum admission requirements and lecturer times. The Education ministry was ordered to fully implement the directives. “Universities that do not heed these requirements should be dealt with according to the law,” President Kenyatta said at Bungoma County’s Kibabii University during its first graduation ceremony. The President, who is the chancellor, said the government would give the university Sh300 million to improve it. He was accompanied by Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka, Cabinet secretaries Fred Matiang’i (Education), Adan Mohammed (Industrialisation), Eugene Wamalwa (Water) and Judi Wakhungu (Environment). “The ministry should stop these malpractices. These vices are diluting the quality of education in the country,” said the President. SHORTEST TIME He explained that his decision was designed to stop politicians from rushing to obtain degrees in the shortest possible time in order to qualify to run for office. The President maintained that a freeze on the establishment of new public universities was still in force. “All universities should heed this directive. No one must be left behind,” he went on. He called on institutions of higher learning to maintain the quality and integrity of their examinations. “The era of missing marks, students progressing to the next year without knowing how they performed the previous year must stop. Appointment of staff should be on merit, qualification and experience,” he went on. He later toured Pan Paper Mills in Webuye where he announced that the first production line would be revived by December 15. The others, he said, would come to life once the first one is running. “By the time this happens, 500 people will have been employed. By June next year, the factory will have doubled its capacity, as well as employees,” he said. “This factory will be the lifeline of the people of Webuye town. The town will come alive once again. We promised as Jubilee to do this when we took over government,” said the President. ATTACKED OPPOSITION At the same time, President Kenyatta attacked the opposition for persistently criticising government projects and told the critics to give the Jubilee administration time to work. “They were once in leadership positions, what did they do for Kenyans? We are reviving Pan Paper and have constructed several roads in the country ... these people should let us work,” he said. “There are people who don’t see anything good in this country. We will develop this country equally without discrimination,” he declared. The President also called on Kenyans to shun tribal politics. “We cannot develop our country through confrontation. This can only be achieved through unity and cooperation,” he said. The opposition, led by Mr Raila Odinga, has accused President Kenyatta of presiding over massive looting of public resources through projects such as the standard gauge railway and the National Youth Service. The government has also been accused of losing billions of shillings in the Health ministry and from the Eurobond, claims it denies.  