Kenya’s teams to the Rio Olympic Games lacked proper accommodation and training facilities ahead of the Games in August, a probe commissioned by the government had revealed. According to the Rio Olympic Games Probe Committee’s report seen by the Daily Nation on Monday, the standards of facilities at the High Performance Training Centre in Eldoret, Uasin Gishu County, and the Nandi Bears Club in Nandi County were below par. The report also said the javelin throw runway at the Kipchoge Keino Stadium in Eldoret was short by seven metres. In addition, the stadium which was used for the Olympic athletics trials was not suitable for the competition because it lacked key facilities. The report stated that should Team Kenya, especially rugby, settle for Nandi Bears Club for future residential camp and training, the club needs to improve its standards. “National trials and camps should not be held in places that do not meet basic standards,” said the report. Paul Ochieng, who is who is also the dean of students at Nairobi’s Strathmore University, chaired the committee. The report said that even though the High Performance Training Centre based on Kenyan Olympic legend Kipchoge Keino’s Kazi Mingi Farm was located in a conducive environment with ample space, the centre lacked a number of essential facilities. The report stated that the High Performance Centre’s gymnasium was small and “could barely accommodate more than three people at a time.” “The gym has few equipment and is not adequate for professional athletes,” said the report which added: “One of the women’s hostels had very small partitions that were uncomfortable to the athletes.” The probe committee findings stated that the conditions of the mattresses at centre were not fit for athletes. The athletes also complained about the menu at the centre, and the lack of a nutritionist worsened the situation. According to the report, most of the athletes left the camp for their homes in order to meet their dietary needs. World and Commonwealth javelin champion Julius Yego and his coach, Joseph Mosonik, raised the red flag about the conditions at the centres but their complaints fell on deaf ears. The report said that the camp lacked a proper gymnasium for javelin preparations. As a result, Yego, who won silver at the Rio Olympics despite suffering a leg injury during the competition, to pay for a better gym in Eldoret Town. The report further said that Yego would sometimes arrange his own transport to the Kipchoge Keino Stadium where he trained for his throws, and even then, the javelin runway at the stadium was shorter than the required standards. The public and some of the coaches interviewed by the investigating team commended the decision to hold the trials in Eldoret which attracted a record turnout. However, the report said the arena lacked essential facilities. The report concluded that it was evident the stadium was not ready to host championships of such magnitude as there was no warm-up track and athletes used the roadside. “The stadium had no field events facilities like high jump landing foam, which led to the cancellation of the event,” said the report. “The javelin runway was 23 metres and this is seven metres short of the required length, hence its was dangerous. There were no emergency exits,” the report said. The stadium had no athletes call room, no photo-finish equipment, hurdles and starters blocks. On Nandi Bears, the report said the rugby team liked the place because it lacked distractions, but the facility had several challenges. The report said the club didn’t have a gym and swimming pool. It only had one pitch and only the men’s team could be accommodated leaving out the women’s side.   Team Kenya chiefs had supplied athlete with wrong set of uniforms, letter says.