Supporters of two Kilifi Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) MPs clashed at a rally hosted by Governor Amason Kingi in Malindi on Wednesday, on his return from Nairobi after a date with the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) over the loss of money from the county’s coffers. The county’s Woman Representative Aisha Jumwa is eying the Malindi Constituency seat in the 2017 polls. The seat is currently held by Mr William Mtengo and this has caused bitter rivalry between the two leaders. During the rally at the Malindi Stadium, efforts by Mr Kingi to calm the rowdy groups did not bear fruit as they shouted each other down with shouts of “Lazima Kieleweke” (it must be made clear) ‘‘Mtengo Must Go! Jumwa Must Go! Mtengo Must Come!’’ The rally was held a day after Governor Kingi returned to the county from Nairobi where he was grilled for hours at the EACC headquarters at Integrity Centre, over the loss of Sh51 million. Trouble started when Mr Mtengo took to the podium to introduce his colleagues, among them Senator Stewart Madzayo and Ms Jumwa at the rally dubbed “Kieleweke” (let it be clear). He had earlier been escorted by Governor Kingi, which raised eyebrows among Ms Jumwa’s supporters who saw it as “an indirect endorsement.’’ CRITICISED JUMWA The MP sparked an uproar when he criticised Ms Jumwa, telling her that he would floor her during the party’s primaries. “Slow down. I am going to show you dust during nominations. Do not be fooled by people. All these are my supporters and they will feast on your money and then vote for me,” said Mtengo While urging ODM supporters to maintain peace, Mr Mtengo described Ms Jumwa as a “visitor’’ in Malindi who should respect the current leaders in the area. “Governor Kingi, you should also know Malindi has a sitting MP. We have to respect each other as leaders,” he said. The rally turned chaotic when Ms Jumwa went to the podium. Rowdy youths donning T-Shirts in support of both Ms Jumwa and the MP, with some shouting ‘‘Mtengo must go,’’ clashed, prompting police intervention. KINGI INTERVENES Mr Kingi had to step in again to quell the chaos and asked the supporters to respect and tolerate each other. “We members of ODM party are a family and we should love one another and treat each other with dignity unless you have been sent here with bad intentions to disrupt the rally,” said Governor Kingi. The rally proceeded with Mr Madzayo taking to the stage as an angry Ms Jumwa stormed out with her supporters and proceeded to Alaskan grounds for a different rally where she was joined by Kakuyuni MCA Nixon Mramba and his Kibarani counterpart Gertrude Mbeyu. She said she is in solidarity with Mr Kingi in his fight against corruption. However, she declared that ODM will “regret’’ should they nominate Mr Mtengo as the party’s flag bearer for the Malindi seat. “Mr Mtengo has been heard several times in meetings asking people to vote for a Jubilee candidate if he fails to win the party ticket,” she claimed. Mr Harun Bakari, one of Ms Jumwa’s supporters urged Mr Kingi not to get involved in Malindi politics and leave the people to decide on who should be the party’s candidate.  