The recent round of revelations of the alleged loss of Sh5 billion from the Ministry of Health, coupled with Ms Josephine Kabura’s appearance before the Public Accounts Committee regarding the loss of Sh1.67 billion from NYS is evidence of a looting crisis that has reached epic proportions. There have been efforts by various known and unknown forces to allocate blame for this to anyone but the Executive. The media, bloggers, independent offices, the Judiciary, civil society, and political opponents have been singled out as those who impede progress. Additionally, Health permanent secretary Nicholas Muraguri’s explicit threats to a journalist reek of misguided arrogance and a misplaced sense of entitlement that violates the letter and spirit of Chapter Six of the Constitution which, among other things, demands that State officers promote public confidence in the integrity of the office. Dr Muraguri’s conduct flies in the face of Article 34 of the Constitution, which provides for the freedom and independence of the media. It specifically provides that the State shall not exercise control over, interfere with, or penalise media practitioners because of their views or content in any broadcast, publication, or dissemination. BE IDENTIFIED In a democracy such as ours, it is only when we allow the media and journalists to do their work that loopholes in the systems can be identified. Ultimately, this allows the government, if it is responsive to the people’s needs, to make the system accountable and responsive. Which begs the question: In light of the bombardment of horrible corruption scandals, will the duty-holders do something decisive about the issue or will the people and the political class bow to partisanship, collective amnesia, and apathy? The Afya House scandal and Ms Kabura’s appearance before the PAC came just a few days after the President declared a mix of frustration and outrage during the aptly named “State House Governance and Accountability Forum” on October 18. These provide a good opportunity for the government, Parliament, the media, citizens, constitutional commissions, and the criminal justice system to sincerely reflect and find ways to stop the wanton looting of public resources and hold those responsible to account. It is alarming that the message one gets from these scandals, especially after listening to Ms Kabura’s interview before the PAC, is that looting the government is the most risk-free and lucrative of ventures as there is no chance that one will be punished. SEEM INCAPABLE The agencies mandated to deal with corruption – the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission, the office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, and the police – seem incapable of credibly dealing with NYS-type scandals. One can deduce, then, that there exists a separate structure that is designed to protect and preserve the power, privilege, and wealth of those who are inclined to loot the country. The wealthy and connected benefit from land earmarked for squatters. They get access to loans and tenders earmarked for vulnerable groups, refuse to pay tax, and cannot be charged for any crimes. Their children are employed in vital institutions that require a deep calling rather than family connections. Because Kenya does not have political parties driven by ideology, the scourge has cut across party lines so that although the government and the opposition pretend to be at loggerheads on every issue, they share in the proceeds of graft. Is it any wonder, then, that a company associated with a former chairman of the anti-graft agency is among the beneficiaries of both the NYS and Afya House scams, yet he was vetted and approved by Parliament to head the very institution mandated to fight corruption?  Demas Kiprono is senior programmes officer, Article 19 Eastern Africa. demaslaw@gmail.com  