President Uhuru Kenyatta yesterday unveiled a national campaign team to spearhead his re-election in next year’s General Election. The President also took advantage of his new Jubilee Party’s first special National Governing Council meeting to highlight the progress made in the implementation of the promises he made to Kenyans during the last elections. Addressing hundreds of delegates at the NGC at Bomas of Kenya in Nairobi, the President also took time to respond to his opponents’ criticism of the government. He denied mega corruption scandals recorded under his administration, dismissing them as mere propaganda and cheap politics by the opposition. Both seasoned and new politicians were named to the President’s team of campaigners distributed across the country’s former eight provinces. “I am certain of victory in the next elections. We have fulfilled over 70 per cent of the promises we made to Kenyans. Everyone with eyes can see what we have done within the past four years under my administration,” President Kenyatta said. Leader of Majority Aden Duale, Mr Abbas Sheikh and Mr Mohammed Mohammud were picked to represent the northeastern region, while Ms Esther Murugi and Mr Nderitu Gachagua will represent central in the team. GRAND TEAM At the coast, Taveta MP Naomi Shaaban, Kwale County Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga and Mr Danson Mungatana will join the President’s grand campaign team, while in the western region, Bungoma Governor Ken Lusaka, Mumias East MP Benjamin Washiali and Teso South MP Mary Emase were named to the team. Also included are Mr Charles Nyachae, Mr Raphael Tuju and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi (Nyanza), while Senator Kiraitu Murungi, Senate Majority Leader Kithure Kindiki, Regina Ndambuki, Rachael Nyamai, Kalembe Ndile and Tiya Galgalo will be in charge of the eastern region. The former Rift Valley Province will be represented by Deputy Speaker Joyce Laboso, Turkana Senator John Munyes, MP Katoo ole Metito (Loitokitok), Turkana Woman Representative Joyce Emanikor and Nakuru County Speaker Susan Kihika. Nairobi Senator Mike Sonko, Nominated Senator Beatrice Elachi, Dagoretti South MP David Waweru and Nominated MP Johnson Sakaja will represent the city in the President’s team. Delegates who felt their regions had been left out loudly protested, drowning Deputy President William Ruto’s voice as he read out the list to the convention. “The team will be in charge of my campaign and will move around the country to mobilise Kenyans to vote for Jubilee Party,” President Kenyatta said. PENDING ELECTIONS The anticipated announcement of the new party’s national officials was shelved pending grassroots elections to be held 90 days after the General Election next August. Expressing confidence in winning re-election next year, the President enumerated his achievements amidst cheers by the delegates. He cited the construction of the standard gauge railway, whose second phase from Nairobi to Naivasha has been launched, as a major promise that has been achieved. He also spoke about the digitised education system supported by the distribution of tablets to Class One pupils and provision of electricity. He said that over 5.2 million Kenyans were now connected to the national grid compared to four million in 2013. “Under my government over Sh1 trillion has been transferred to the county governments and my government has also transferred all devolved functions as required by the law,” said President Kenyatta. Under his administration the Constituency Development Fund had increased from a minimum of Sh40 million to Sh100 million and that close to one million people lacking basic needs, including orphans and the disabled, could now get government assistance. “We have also distributed 3 million title deeds to Kenyans since we took over government. We hope our opponents have seen this.” PARTY PRIMARIES On fears that the nominations would be rigged, the President said that the party would ensure fairness and transparency in handling party primaries. “We will be the first party to conduct a free and fair nominations in Kenya,” he said. He announced that they would raise money and pay the electoral commission to run the nominations. The proposal to invite the IEBC to run the Jubilee Party nomination was endorsed by the NGC. The President announced that no one would be favoured. Deputy President Ruto said that the party was poised for a big victory, adding that he would be shocked if their win falls under 70 per cent in the coming poll. “In the last elections we won just by 50+1, but in the coming elections I can see 70+1,” he said. He said that the new party was formed to unite Kenyans, adding that all communities in the country had come together under it. He dismissed claims that the Kenyatta administration was corrupt and defended his big money fundraisings normally criticised by Cord principals. “They have been asking where we get money for harambees. I want to ask them where was this money before we came to power?” Mr Ruto said. He criticised Cord leaders for constant complaints about the Jubilee administration, saying they were in power for a longer period of time but had very little to show for it.  *** National campaign team Coast 1. Salim Mvurya 2. Gideon Mungaro 3. Zainabu Chidzuga 4. Danson Mungatana 5. Suleiman Shaabal 6. Naomi Shaban Western 1. Daniel Baraza 2. Ken Lusaka 3. Ben Washiali 4. Mary emase 5. Justus Kizito 6. Charles Gimose Nyanza 1. Charles Nyachae 2. Albert Nyaundi 3. Raphael Tuju 4. Joash Maangi 5. Joash Nyamoko 6. Joseph Kiangoi 7. Walter Nyambati 8. Jimmy Angwenyi 9. Mathias Robi Eastern 1. Kiraitu Murungi 2. Rachael Nyamai 3. Regina Ndambuki 4. Petkey Miriti 5. Victor Munyaka 6. Kithure Kindiki 7. Kalembe Ndile 8. Tiya Galgalo 9. Dido Ali Raso 10. Francis Chachu 11. Rehema Galgalo 12. Joe Mutambo 13. John Muchiri Northeastern 1. Aden Duale 2. Mohamed Mohamud 3. Abbas Sheikh 4. Hassan Yussuf Central 1. Esther Murugi 2. Nderitu Gachagua 3. Alice Ng’ang’a 4. Sabina Chege 5. Kembi Gitura 6. Njogu barua 7. David Kiaraho Rift Valley 1. Joyce Laboso 2. John Munyes 3. Soipan Tuya 4. Joyce Emanikor 5. Susan Kihika 6. Katoo Ole Metito 7. Simon Kachapin 8. Janet Nangapo 9. Davis Sankok Nairobi 1. Rachel Shebesh 2. Maina Kamanda 3. Beatrice Elachi 4. Mike Sonko 5. Johnson Sakaja 6. Bishop Margaret Wanjiru 7. Dennis Waweru  