One of the most frequent questions that I receive is, as one reader said in exaggeration, “Why do you give so much publicity to Cord leader Raila Odinga every time he opens his mouth?” It is difficult to explain to a layperson the concept of what is newsworthy and I always find myself giving the simplistic answer that Mr Odinga is the leader of the opposition, as if that explains everything. A more nuanced answer would be that the media not only have a duty to report what is going on in society but also to decide what to report in proportion to its value and “infotainment” (combination of information and entertainment). This is what American political scientist John Zaller calls the rule of anticipated importance (RAI). In his 1992 book, The Nature and Origins of Mass Opinion, he acknowledges the value of infotainment in journalism, arguing that even sensationalist and superficial media coverage of politics serves to inform and increase awareness of political issues. Prof Zaller defines RAI in the context of reporting elections. He argues that the coverage of candidates and issues “should be allocated in proportion to its marginal value for shedding light on future developments.” In other words, the media should devote more time to covering candidates who matter. The risk involved in this approach, however, is that the media could be outwitted by the antics of a politician who does not play according to known norms. This seems to be what has happened in the United States, where Donald Trump has pulled off one of the greatest election upsets. The media failed to accurately reflect the mood of the electorate. UNEXPECTED RESULT RAI was at play in the coverage of the presidential election, which ended with the unexpected election of Trump as the president. Prof Zaller’s interest is political behaviour and mass media influence on public opinion, which the media failed to assess accurately. There may be more than one reason for this failure, but certainly one of them is the way the media approached RAI. During the primaries, Trump was the front-runner and enjoyed higher coverage than other candidates. As the real estate tycoon and businessman started branding Mexican immigrants criminals and rapists, calling for the banning of all Muslims from entering the United States, insulting women and African-Americans, mocking disabled people and war hero John McCain, among other outrageous comments, he received even more coverage than all the other Republican candidates and the Democratic candidate, Hillary Clinton. RAI was at work, so much so that it has been suggested that Trump is a creation of the media. MEDIA OPPORTUNITIES Trump, indeed, exploited and manipulated every media opportunity to build his brand. He was in all the papers, on radio and television. Jack Shafer, writes in the May/June 2016 issue of the Politico magazine: “Trump brought the carnival style of his business practices to the gentlemanly art of campaigning, changing the rules to his advantage at every step. He adroitly leveraged airtime to attract additional airtime with his provocations, bombast, and shameless mugging. He set off campaign stink bombs for the news media to investigate, returned showmanship to campaign rallies and picked fights with reporters and other candidates.” In no time, Trump himself became the message. In his book, Understanding Media, Marshall McLuhan coined the well-known enigmatic paradox, “The medium is the message”. What he meant is that the medium influences how a message is perceived. Trump, says Shafer, inverted McLuhan’s dictum. For Trump, it was the message — not the medium — that mattered most in pushing him to the top. Thus, Trump believers ignored the fact that the media portrayed him negatively, while he exploited and manipulated the media to deliver his message. RAI is a good theory for explaining why the media give more publicity to some politicians. But it needs to tempered by a careful analysis of what is going on in society.  Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com; call or text 0721989264.  