As investigations into the alleged Sh5 billion Ministry of Health scandal continue, the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC) was this weekend recording statements from more than 30 officials and tender committee members. On Saturday, some witnesses appeared before the commission while others will do so on Sunday. “The commission is investigating a matter regarding allegations of procurement and financial irregularities at the Ministry of Health for the 2014/15 and 2015/16 financial years in relation to various tenders. This is, therefore, to invite the following officials for interview and statement recording at our offices located at Integrity Centre on Jakaya Kiwete/Valley Road junction,” the EACC letter to Principal Secretary Nicholas Muraguri reads. The letter was written on Friday by EACC’s Abdi A Mohamud, the director of investigation. Those who recorded statements on Saturday were, in addition to Cabinet Secretary Cleopa Mailu, Dr Muraguri and internal auditor Benard Muchere — whose interim report has stirred controversy, with the government dismissing the claims of theft. “We are in the office working right now. There is no weekend for us,” EACC chief executive Halakhe Waqo told the Nation. DISMISSED REPORT It is, however, not clear how independently the investigation will continue after senior politicians led by Deputy President William Ruto and officials from the Health Ministry and State House communications dismissed the interim report. Information Cabinet Secretary Joe Mucheru has also filed a complaint with the Media Council of Kenya against Nation Media Group’s coverage of the matter. The 29 who appeared before EACC on Saturday were senior deputy secretary/development Ibrahim Maalim, chief health administration officer Peter Gacenge, deputy director of medical services Izaq Odongo, chief pharmacist Kipkerich Koskei, acting director of nursing services Susan Otieno, chief medical laboratory technologist Abdulatif Ali, three supply chain management officials namely Maurice Oluoch, Peter Macharia and Andrew Ndolo, and deputy head of accounting unit in the ministry Charity Muriuki. The list also includes senior public health officer Stephen Matiba, assistant director of medical services I.M Kimani, five inspection committee members for portable clinics — Elizabeth Masaku, Micah Kisoo, Nelson Kariuki, Mutua Kiilu and Alois Kimunyu — and senior chief finance officer Khadiagala Benn. TENDER COMMITTEE Others included Dickson MacAger, nutrition officer Gladys Mugambi, senior accountant Maina Kamau, finance officers Peter Messoh and Mr E. M Omari, supply chain management assistant Julius Nyamohanga, retired accountant Isaac Murimi, and four members of the tender committee for food and rations: Elkana Onguti, Iraq Odongo, K.C Koskei and Charity Muriuki. On Sunday, it will be the turn of members of the tender opening committee, tender number MOH/HQS/RT/019/2014-15, for portable clinics, and members of the tender evaluation committee for the same tender. Though the government has stated that no money was lost, the ongoing EACC investigations are among the lingering questions the government has not answered. The ministry has accused the media of creating stories out of an incomplete report, but a senior government auditor said the interim audit report is just one stage before finalisation. “An interim report comes after final field work has been done and most queries responded to,” the auditor said. His claims were supported by Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (Kenya chapter) CEO Jane Mugo. “By and large, an interim report should be complete,” she said.  