Franz Kafka said in his usually sharp and smutty wit that, “An idiot is an idiot; two idiots are two idiots. Ten thousand idiots are a political party.” We may be tempted to apply Kafka’s principle to democracy in general, particularly after what has happened in this last year in some of our most renowned modern democracies. Truly, in the second half of 2016, democratic shockwaves have sent shivers across the world. Whether we like it or not, the majority’s power to choose may be turning into a fallacy, which people are challenging. Numbers are clearly insufficient; they do not tell the whole story.  We have been living for too many years with the conviction that if the majority wants it, it must be right. Reality is now questioning this long-unchallenged principle. While I firmly believe in democracy, the time has come to question the way some democratic systems are organised; we need to find answers to today’s unusual and generalised feeling that modern states do not seem to really serve the people, do not meet the people’s expectations. ELEVEN MURDERS Australia is an amazing puzzle. It is a success story made up of an intricate web of past cruel decisions, wrong colonial policies and flopped democratic choices. Today, the Australian state of Queensland is the current success of a shameful past. Queensland is just above 1.7 million square km in area, close to three times bigger than Kenya. It is home to only 5 million people, most of whom live in its capital, Brisbane, the third largest city in Australian and one of its most beautiful. Brisbane is spotless, clean, amiable and secure. It had only 11 murders in both 2014 and 2015, less than one murder per 100,000 inhabitants. According to World Bank figures, Australia is also relatively safe, with one murder per 100,000 inhabitants. This is quite low if we compare it with Honduras’ 75, South Africa’s 33, Kenya’s 6 (all 2014 figures) and Tanzania’s 8 (2012 figures) This was not always so. In the late 80s, Queensland had seen the worst of corruption. A series of articles and well-researched TV reports unearthed grand corruption in the police service. The government appointed a Commission of Inquiry, headed by Tony Fitzgerald, QC. Its original mandate was to investigate possible illegal activities and police misconduct. HORRIBLE TASTE Alas, as it always happens, the problem was not only in the police, for nobody kills or steals alone. As time went on, the Commission’s mandate expanded. The inquiry implicated the Premier and he lost his job. Three former ministers and the police commissioner were jailed, and the latter lost his knighthood. The inquiry left the horrible taste of corruption across the whole of Queensland. Enough was enough, and after 32 years in power the people voted the National Party out. This democratic turn set the pace for the reconstruction of a state whose systems were falling apart. The Crime and Justice Commission was created, and later transformed to the Crimes and Corruption Commission (CCC). The Crime and Corruption Act of 2001 vested it with powers to investigate crime and corruption, combat and reduce the incidence of major crime, fight corruption in the public sector, provide witness protection, and administer the state’s proceeds of crime. The CCC may conduct public or closed coercive hearings, apply for search warrants and intercept telecommunications. It exercises its functions in close coordination with the Ombudsman, the Office of the Director of Public Prosecutions, the Integrity Commissioner (who looks at conflicts of interests, advises public servants and keeps records of lobbyists), and probity auditors. PROCUREMENT AND FRAUD The CCC has a well-established risks and complaints management assessment and monitoring system, and key performance indicators. All public bodies in Queensland assess their corruption risk management. Generally, it appears a low risk society, but this was not always so. The CCC’s has its work cut out for it. To be accurate and factual, it goes beyond empty talk and looks at life-style audits. Key performance indicators dictate that 80 per cent of investigations should be finalised within 12 months, with a clear outcome that recommends disciplinary or criminal action as appropriate. According to the Chair of the CCC, the most recurrent crimes in Queensland are related to procurement irregularities, fraud and conflict of interests. In the police service, which is also under the care of the CCC, they have more commonly dealt with the release of confidential information, drug related crimes and excessive use of force. Cheating in Queensland brings dire consequences. People actually go to jail and their assets actually get confiscated. The CCC is currently litigating 101 confiscation matters valued at Sh5 billion, and they are putting together 26 other matters valued at 600 million shillings. The CCC’s have a wide array of confiscation tools. Forfeiture orders, proceeds assessment orders, unexplained wealth orders or serious drug offender confiscation orders. One of the most recent success stories was the case of Gordon Nuttall. MINISTERS WERE JAILED Nuttall was a member of the Labour Party and served as a minister from 2001 to 2005. “In 2009 he was found guilty of corruptly receiving secret commissions and jailed for seven years. In 2010, he was found guilty of five charges of official corruption and five charges of perjury and jailed for an additional seven years, the longest jail term for corruption handed to a Commonwealth politician.” Nuttall’s properties were seized, and on 12 July 2010, the Supreme Court ordered him to repay 454,000 dollars considered to be "proceeds of crime" to the state of Queensland, as well as the duty to pay the Government's legal costs of $42,000. Stealing in Queensland is more expensive than being honest. As of September 2016, Gordon Nuttall had repaid more than A$600,000 (Sh45.5 million). The 1987-1989 corruption crisis in Queensland triggered many positive effects. Not only did the state turn inside out and replace its leadership, but systems were also put in place. Nowadays, in Brisbane, pedestrians or drivers do not jump a red light, there is cleanliness, order and fairness in the conduct of ordinary affairs. Leaders do not have the “Oga” mentality because they see themselves as public servants. FIVE POLICE DEAD The Supreme Court is neat, clean and beautiful. The police service (like Kenya, no longer a police force) is proud to have one of the highest acceptance rates in the world. Clem O’Regan, Assistant Commissioner of the Queensland Police Service, tells me their acceptance rate is close to 92 per cent, and their perception of honesty in the first semester of 2016 was at 98 per cent. Since 1989, five policemen have died in the line of duty in Queensland. The last one was Detective Senior Constable Damien Leeding, in June 2011. Brisbane is not a perfect city, but we really have some good lessons to learn from our brothers in Australia. They have made corruption more expensive than honesty. It does not pay to be corrupt in Queensland. During Mwai Kibaki’s first stint as President in 2003, he threatened anyone engaging in corruption with the sack, but action did not follow. The threats did little more than increase the bribe price. Since then, we have not made serious attempts and inquiry commissions have really become little more than intriguing commissions. Time is running short. Perhaps the next elections will provide the right platform for a more serious fight against corruption. We have no way out. Either we take the Brisbane road, or we will end up in Gotham City. We know it and we must avoid it, for only idiots end up in Gotham. Dr Franceschi is the dean of Strathmore Law School. Lfranceschi@strathmore.edu; Twitter: @lgfranceschi  