President Kenyatta on Monday asked Cord leader Raila Odinga to retire from politics and let young people run the country as he accused the former Prime Minister of using propaganda to sabotage the Jubilee government. In fiery speeches in six constituencies that were calculated to fire up his central Kenya base, calm fears of Jubilee nominations fallout, quash voter apathy and paint the opposition as incompetent, he described the Cord leader as a man who has run out of ideas. “Maybe it is his age and that is why we are asking him to retire now that he is an old man. We will ensure he is treated well. Occasionally, I will bring him a bowl of uji in Bondo if he quits,” said the President who yesterday visited Laikipia and Nyeri counties, making quick stop-overs in Kieni, Tetu, Mukurwe-ini, Nyeri Town, Othaya and Laikipia East constituencies. Mr Kenyatta commissioned and launched projects worth Sh13 billion. He was accompanied by Deputy President William Ruto. At each stop, the President turned his guns on the opposition leader, accusing him of practising “foolish” politics that sabotages the country. CRITICISE EVERYTHING “Even he can see the good things we are doing, but he cannot point them out. It is a foolish way of conducting politics. These people are politicking like mad people where they criticise everything, even the good things,” said Mr Kenyatta. He cited Cord’s opposition to issuance of another Eurobond as an example of sabotage. “They are sabotaging Kenya’s ability to borrow money yet the money is for all of us. This is despite all agencies proving that no Eurobond money was lost,” said President Kenyatta. In October, opposition leader Raila Odinga warned international lending institutions and investors against participating in a second International Sovereign Bond (Eurobond) proposed by Kenya. “Even when he was given a position by former President Mwai Kibaki in the coalition government, he undermined him instead of working,” the President told residents.He also denied that the government had lost billions, saying cash is being invested in projects. “If money is being stolen, would we get the cash to carry out the kind of projects we are doing? Those claiming that Jubilee is stealing money are used to plundering and they do not think a government can be run in any other way,” he said. Mr Kenyatta assured residents that Jubilee Party nominations will be free and fair and he will work with those who will be elected by the people. “Those who will lose should join us and we will give them positions when we form the government,” he said Mr Ruto said attempts by the opposition to suppress the vote in central Kenya by talking of growing apathy from area voters would fail and urged residents to register in droves to vote for President Kenyatta in the 2017 elections. PLANT SEEDS OF DISCORD “When he (Raila) wakes up in the morning, he thinks of a lie to tell. Even when he is dreaming, its a lie he is dreaming about. Do not fall for that propaganda,” the DP said. Mr Ruto accused the media of being used by the opposition to plant seeds of discord not only in central, but also across the country. “Ndio maana rais anaambia nyinyi hii magazeti ni ya kufunga nyama tu (That is why the President tells you these newspapers are only useful for wrapping meat),” he said. The projects launched included the Sh700m Naro Moru-Ngobit road, the Sh800m Chaka model market that will have value addition facilities, a milk cooling plant and a gym and fitness centre. At Naro Moru, he promised that the government would build a Sh9bn dam to serve both Kieni and Laikipia areas. He also gave titles to residents of colonial villages. President Kenyatta also ordered the completion of Othaya hospital within five months failure to which the Health CS and PS will be sacked. The hospital has already gobbled up Sh600m and the President on Monday added another Sh300m to complete it. The CS was asked to make two visits every month to ensure it is done. He later commissioned Othaya and Mukurwe-ini water projects worth more than Sh800m. A multi-billion shilling modern teaching and referral hospital will also be constructed in Nanyuki. Construction of the facility will begin in January and is expected to serve patients from Laikipia, Meru, Isiolo, Marsabit, Samburu and parts of Nyeri counties, who are usually referred to Nairobi.“Yet some people claim that Sh200 million shillings for this project was mismanaged but today we have seen the ground where the hospital will be constructed. The drawings are ready and the contractor has already been identified,” the President said. The government is also upgrading to bitumen several roads in the county among them Jua Kali-Tetu, Mugumoini-Umande, Maili-Sita-Umande, Narumoru-Wiyumiririe and Rumuruti–Maralal. He was accompanied by Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua, Kieni MP Kanini Kega, Mathira’s Peter Weru, Nyeri’s Esther Murugi and senator Mutahi Kagwe. Mukurwei-ini MP Kabando Wa Kabando, Women Rep Priscilla Nyokabi, Tetu MP Ndung’u Gethenji, Laikipia Governor Joshua Irungu and Laikipia East MP Anthony Mutahi also attended.   President and his deputy accuse Cord leader of trying to fan voter apathy in central Kenya.