Cuba’s revolutionary leader Fidel Castro died on Friday at 90, eight years after stepping down from the presidency of the Caribbean country, which he had led for 47 years. Castro came to power in 1959 at the head of a revolution and ushered in a Communist one-party state. Reviled and adored in equal measure, there was one place far away from Cuba where he left an enduring mark: Africa. It came late, and at a point when, perhaps, even Castro didn’t expect it. Its genesis and extent remains little studied; it wasn’t straightforward either. In Cold War-era Africa, Cuba lined up alongside the Soviet Union, on the side of radical, Marxist and an assortment of “progressive” and anti-colonial and anti-imperialist forces and governments — from Cape Verde, present-day Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), and in the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa, and the war against Portuguese stubborn colonialism in Mozambique and Angola. Attitudes towards Cuba remained divided along East-West ideological lines with “capitalist” “anti-communist” conservative regimes from both Jomo Kenyatta and Daniel arap Moi’s Kenya to Hastings Kamuzu Banda’s Malawi and King Hassan II’s Morocco being deeply hostile. Other leaders — like Senegal’s Léopold Sédar Senghor and those in Botswana — avoided getting sucked into taking sides and mostly sat out the Cold War on the fence. However, as Africa closed the 1970s decade, many things were to change, which would alter Cuba’s — and Castro’s — standing in the continent. Bar Botswana and Mauritius, nearly all the rest of the African countries were either under military dictatorships, one-party rule or minority white supremacist regimes like South Africa, Zimbabwe (then Rhodesia) and Namibia. The 1970s “oil crisis” which sent prices sharply up and the incompetence and brutality of military and one-party rule (whether on the left or right) took their toll. Most of Africa entered the ’80s broken and with citizens living a hellish life. The Soviet Union, a key ally of revolutionary governments in Africa, had launched what was to be a disastrous war in Afghanistan, with its invasion of the Asian country in 1979. Very quickly, it became clear the war was sapping the energies of the Soviet Union, and commitments to African allies began to fall away. It was a time when the West, “capitalism”, was entering a successful political and intellectual period, starting the same year of the Soviet Union’s Afghanistan adventure with Margaret Thatcher becoming Prime Minister in the United Kingdom. And then, most decisively, the election of Ronald Reagan as the 40th president of the United States a year later. The duo ratcheted up the Cold War, and in southern Africa, took the view that the liberation movements, including the African National Congress (ANC), were “terrorist” organisations. The prospects for the end of apartheid in South Africa and freedom in Namibia seemed to recede considerably in the new diplomatic environment. Emboldened, apartheid South Africa increased support for the reactionary and brutal Renamo rebel movement in Mozambique, and Jonas Savimbi’s Unita in Angola. In the early 1980s, both Samora Machel’s infant Frelimo government in Mozambique and José Eduardo dos Santos-led MPLA were on their backfoots. Across the political divide there had now crept in a widespread collective sense of failure, and even shame, among the elite in Africa. The continent needed something hopeful and new to re-energise “the struggle”, as it was popularly called then, or to look good in the world. It came partly from political developments but, in a surprise, mostly from the arts — music. The Jamaican reggae superstar Bob Marley was becoming all the rage in Africa among the youth and his music a rallying cry for progressive movements. In 1979, he released his song Zimbabwe. “Every man gotta right to decide his own destiny, And in this judgement there is no partiality. So arm in arms, with arms, we’ll fight this little struggle, ’Cause that’s the only way we can overcome our little trouble. Brother, you’re right, you’re right, You’re right, you’re right, you’re so right! We gon’ fight (we gon’ fight), we’ll have to fight (we gon’ fight), We gonna fight (we gon’ fight), fight for our rights! Natty Dread it in-a (Zimbabwe); Set it up in (Zimbabwe); Mash it up-a in-a Zimbabwe (Zimbabwe); Africans a-liberate (Zimbabwe), yeah…” …he sang. Bob Marley performed an independence concert in Zimbabwe in April 1980, one of the most storied concerts of the period in Africa. It cemented his place in popular African political and musical imagination. Young people started growing dreadlocks, and hopping about and shaking their heads vigorously in nightclubs with lit cigarette lighters aloft, to Marley’s sounds. At about this time the music of Johnny Clegg, a white South African musician, and his Juluka band, whose material was censored back home, started to be heard and become popular across the concert. Though very many white South Africans were opposed to apartheid and were in the ANC and other groups, their story was not well known in the rest of the continent. Musicians like Clegg helped to bring that realisation to foreground. Stevie Wonder threw in his bit in 1980 with Master Blaster, singing: “…Peace has come to Zimbabwe….” Collectively, this body of music introduced an accessible new language to talk about liberation and freedom, shorn of the rigid and ideological stricture of “proletariat”, “working class”, “revolutionary vanguard”, in which the anti-imperialist movement had been steeped. A third way, a new platform, in which people who were otherwise “anti-communist” could enter into a conversation on the liberation effort, and in which the left could meet with conservatives in Africa without seeming to “sell out”, was fast developing. With it came a need by Africans to feel good after 10 years in which there was little to cheer about. However, the good news was hard to come by, in addition to other things, because at the start of the 1980s the horrid Ethiopian famine kicked everything off international news. In the end, anything between 400,000 to one million people are estimated to have died. The Mengistu Haile Mariam military junta in Addis Ababa was a hardline Marxist regime and its haplessness in the face of the famine accelerated its fall in 1991 to rebels led by Meles Zenawi. The Ethiopia famine, however, gave birth to the now much-reviled “live aid” concert phenomenon. In July 1985, Bob Geldof and Midge Ure organised simultaneous “live aid” concerts to raise money for the starving in Africa, particularly Ethiopia. It raised more than three times the target of £10 million. Times and sensibilities change, but at the time the “live aid” concerts, and musicians like Bob Marley, opened up spaces that allowed a more diverse group of Africans to engage with the problems on the continent, and to see things like apartheid as a “humanistic” problem, not cast in the old ideological straitjacket. It was important in building support for these countries. Another phase in the development came in 1987 with Paul Simon’s controversial Graceland tour of South Africa. He travelled to South Africa to record the album with local musicians, ignoring an international boycott put in place by the United Nations Anti-Apartheid Committee. However, a concert across the border in Zimbabwe, with musicians such as Miriam Makeba and Hugh Masekela, had an unexpected effect. It introduced to Africa and the world the South African choral group Ladysmith Black Mambazo. But it also pushed further the idea of multiracial cooperation, ideas of multiracial societies in liberated southern African countries, and new thinking about how to craft pro-democracy coalitions. (Simon was one of the first international artistes to perform in South Africa after the end of apartheid, at the invitation of Nelson Mandela). While art and new forms of demanding liberation had brought cross-ideological attention on apartheid, politically, the battle against it seemed futile. With its superior technological edge, and rivals on the continent weakened by brutal and inept dictatorships, South Africa attacked targets in Zambia, Mozambique, Angola, Zimbabwe and, occasionally, Botswana with impunity. Then in 1985, perhaps the biggest political moral force in Africa then, Tanzania’s Julius Nyerere, retired. The Organisation of African Unity’s (OAU) influential Liberation Committee was headquartered in Tanzania. Nyerere was also the leader of the Frontline States in the liberation struggle against white-ruled southern Africa. There was unease about who would fill his boots. To compound matters, in October 1986, in what was believed to be sabotage by apartheid South Africa, Samora Machel died when his presidential aircraft crashed near the Mozambique-South Africa border. The sense of helplessness and humiliation was palpable. Even anti-communists who didn’t sympathise with the leftist regimes in southern Africa felt their pride as Africans injured by South African impunity. By now, it was becoming clear that the Soviet Union was seriously bleeding out and would not shore up its allies in Africa as it used to do in the past.And that is when it happened. After Angola and Mozambique became independent from Portugal in 1975, and Zimbabwe shook off white supremacist rule in 1980, they allowed South African anti-apartheid groups to establish military and political bases on their territories. So, where previously only Tanzania and Zambia offered sanctuary to southern African liberation movements, now the frontline states expanded considerably. With its support for Renamo and Unita, and regular attacks, South Africa, with its superior military might, made Mozambique and Angola to pay a high price. Apartheid forces wreaked so much havoc on Mozambique that, in 1984, Maputo signed the Nkomati Accords with Pretoria, under which each country would no longer support the other country’s opposition movements. Then South Africa turned its full attention to Angola and invaded. With its back to the wall, Angola called upon Cuba for help. Fidel Castro obliged, sending in thousands of troops and heavy weapons. After nearly four years of war, apartheid South Africa’s Waterloo came in 1988 in the tiny town of Cuito Cuanavale in southeastern Angola. The battle of Cuito Cuanavale is considered easily the biggest military confrontation in Africa since World War II. The South Africans presented the outcome as a total victory and Cuba and Angola too claimed the annihilation of apartheid forces. In end, the mighty South African military had, at least, for the first time, been battled to a draw. A little humbled, the apartheid regime was forced to begin peace talks with Angola and subsequently move towards a transition to democracy at home. It withdrew from Angola and, shortly after, Namibia, with the latter gaining independence in 1990. Without Cuito, perhaps democracy wouldn’t have arrived in South Africa in 1994 and most of these developments would have taken more years. That was a time when viral videos didn’t happen on the internet — because there was no internet. However, in the late 1980s and early ’90s, there were two ‘viral’ VHS video tapes in Africa that nearly every pan-Africanist, progressive, leftist, or just plain “proud African” who took themselves seriously had. One was of Castro describing the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale, in rather effusive fashion, and at one point gesticulating to show how Cuban firepower “shook the ground like an earthquake”. Snippets of it can be seen in footage on YouTube about the political dynamics that were set off by the Battle of Cuito Cuanavale. The other was the 1987 Paul Simon concert. When the Soviet Union was enfeebled, when Africa was on its knees after a bad decade, and all that were on screens all over the world were starving children, at a time when the continent needed something to feel proud about, it got it in Cuito Cuanavale. “Fideri”, as many in Africa called him then, had delivered. Many who wouldn’t have bothered, or didn’t care about all the revolutionary exploits associated with him on the continent, really loved him for it. The author is publisher of Africa data visualiser Africapedia.com and explainer site Roguechiefs.com. Most of this story is from observation notes the author made as a student, and later a young journalist, about the Africa that he witnessed over 15 years.  