I must commend the governor of the Central Bank of Kenya, Dr Patrick Njoroge, for the deft and professional manner in which he has handled the problems of Fidelity Commercial Bank. I first heard of the impending acquisition deal between Fidelity and the SBM Group of Mauritius last Thursday when a source called to inform me that Dr Njoroge was presiding over negotiations between the shareholders of the bank and the suitors from Mauritius. I sent a text message to the chairman of the bank, Mr Sultan Khimji, requesting a confidential off-the-record chat to inform a story I was planning to do about a transaction that promised to be precedent-setting, especially when looked at from the point of view of the bungling of the case of the three commercial banks that have recently fallen into trouble. I needed to confirm the news because the rumours created the impression that the shareholders of Fidelity Commercial Bank had resisted a forced marriage with SBM Group. Mr Khimji chose to play the cards close to his chest, declining to respond to my queries until Monday this week when he called to inform me that he would not be ready to chat with me until after Wednesday. Apparently, it was agreed that a news story on the deal before the parties had signed on the dotted line would not have served the interests of the negotiating parties. BEST PRACTICE Clearly, the way Dr Njoroge has managed the problems at Fidelity is not only fresh but also follows best practice in the modern regulation of banks. First, you detect the problem early. Indeed, developing early warning systems of problem banks is an important hallmark of efficient regulatory systems. The approach that Dr Njoroge has adopted in this case — quiet behind-the-scenes negotiations and consultations with shareholders — is in stark contrast with the way he approached the problems of Imperial and Chase banks. The latter cases were characterised by high-profile stand-offs and court cases. Governor Njoroge has followed the rulebook used by top regulators such as the Federal Insurance Corporation of the United States. You do not rush to close banks. Instead, you identify the problem early, quietly conduct audits and analyses, bring new suitors to the table, get the strategic investors to strike a deal with the shareholders, and finally reopen the bank under a new name. This way, depositors will not have to endure the misery they have always been subjected to in this country. I hope that the approach Dr Njoroge adopted in the Fidelity case is going to be the new normal. Seven months ago, the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation put Chase Bank in receivership and appointed Kenya Commercial Bank (KCB) to manage it. We were told that KCB would acquire a majority interest in the bank after which the receivership would be lifted. CLEAR MAP To date, the corporation has yet to put out a clear map outlining how the bank is to be lifted from receivership. Deposits, including advocate-client funds and loan securities, are tied up. We also know that the longer it takes to lift the receivership, the less likely it is that customers will stay. A number of depositors have formed an association to explore options of protecting their interests and it will not be long before they go to court. We must not forget that the shareholders of the bank include international investors, who have additional rights under bilateral investment treaties their countries have with Kenya. Under the treaties, the foreign investors from France, Germany, the Netherlands and Switzerland are guaranteed “fair and equitable treatment” by the government of Kenya. In the case of Imperial Bank, depositors, including bond holders, have been waiting for more than a year as the regulator and shareholders engage in legal battles that only serve to fatten the wallets of consultants and lawyers. Lately, Imperial Bank depositors have been treated to a bizarre drama in which the Central Bank and the shareholders have resorted to publishing different interpretations of a judgment by Justice George Odunga over whether the manager appointed by the Central Bank — NIC Bank — should proceed with the process of stripping the bank of its assets. Lawyer Ahmednasir Abdullahi, who is threatening a class action suit on behalf of the depositors, has put out an explosive affidavit full of allegations about Imperial Bank. Which begs the question: In these echo chambers, who is interested in the predicament of the poor depositors? Sina Habari. jaindikisero@gmail.com  