In his political career, Laikipia North MP Mathew Lekidime Lempurkel has treated Kenyans to more than a fair share of controversies and dramas, the latest being the Monday fist fight with nominated MP Sara Korere. Controversies seem to dog the only ODM MP Laikipia County in many public places. Just before the 2007 General Election, while contesting the Laikipia West parliamentary seat, Mr Lempurkel was arrested for allegedly gesturing at the area district commissioner obscenely. It was not established how the matter ended, but he was not charged in court. KICKED OUT Two years ago, the MP missed a parliamentary committee trip to Europe after he was kicked out of the airplane for being drunk and rowdy. Fellow MPs on the trip said Mr Lempurkel pushed cabin crew and broke several glasses. Hell broke loose when he demanded to be served beer instead of wine. He was ordered to disembark after the pilot said he would not fly a "rogue" passenger. “I just protested because this was clear discrimination. They could not give me beer yet they were serving wine to other passengers. They are now twisting the story claiming I was unruly and had assaulted the crew and broke glasses,” he would tell this writer after the incident. MIC FIGHT Weeks after the incident, the MP arrived at a highly publicised fundraiser organised by Ms Korere in aid of a women's sacco in Laikipia North and wrested a microphone from Laikipia Woman Representative Jane Apollos and accused organisers of failing to recognise him as the elected MP of the area. Nine MPs, among them Deputy National Assembly Speaker Joyce Laboso, who was representing Deputy President William Ruto as the chief guest, watched in horror as their colleague disrupted the event at the Doldol stadium before Senator GG Kariuki cooled him down. He was angered that he did not get official invitation though the function was in his constituency. In August last year, rioting residents of Ol Donyiro market in Isiolo County held the MP hostage for two days after he stormed the offices of the Ndugu Zanguni Christian Community Charitable Trust and started packing away equipment like computers after chasing staff away. LAND CRUISER The MP, who was accompanied by a court process server and Administration Police officers from the Rumuruti Police Station, remained holed up in the centre's offices for more than 24 hours as residents lit bonfires outside and bayed for his blood. He had been embroiled in a row with some missionaries over the management of the institution. He later bowed to pressure and surrendered the property, including a Toyota Land Cruiser that he had already fuelled at the centre before being escorted out by heavily armed police. Mr Lempurkel blamed "some people" seeking to take over the centre through the back door by inciting the community against him. MC FIGHT However, in October, Mr Lempurkel was at it again, this time demanding to be the master of ceremonies at a meeting attended by then acting Lands Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i at Lekiji Farm. The MP, who had arrived late, almost threw the meeting into disarray by demanding that protocol required that he be the one to invite the minister to speak. He took the microphone from County Commissioner Apollo Okello and started inviting guests. Dramas aside, Mr Lempurkel speaks his mind without fear. He has fashioned himself as a champion of the county’s marginalised pastoralists, just like the late William ole Ntimama without giving a damn about what others think of him. This has earned him a firm political support base in Laikipia North.   Nominated MP Sara Korere exchanges more than words with Laikipia North counterpart Mathew Lempurkel