Party of National Unity (PNU) leader and Meru Governor Peter Munya has said he is ready to take on Jubilee Party (JP) in the 2017 General Election. Speaking when he started three-day political rallies in Meru, Mr Munya exuded confidence that he would beat JP's influence. Addressing residents of Meru at several stopovers along the Meru-Nanyuki road, the governor downplayed Meru Senator Kiraitu Murungi's influence in the county. “The senator and Deputy President William Ruto are political tourists in Meru. Let them continue with their tourism. In 2017, I will beat my opponents hands down and seek the presidency in 2022,” he said. Mr Munya was accompanied by PNU officials, several Members of County Assembly and the party’s aspirants. He showed several parliamentary aspirants to residents, including five members of the Meru County Executive Committee, who are eyeing seats in various constituencies. Mr Munya said just like he had overcome attempts to merge PNU with JP, he would trounce his opponents in 2017. "We have overcome attempts by Senator Kiraitu to kill PNU. In 2017, we are sending him home. PNU is here to stay and will take me to State house in 2022. We chose to use PNU's track record to defend democracy," Mr Munya said. PUBLIC FUNDS The rallies coame a day after Senator Murungi accused Mr Munya of using public funds to finance PNU activities. Mr Murungi claimed that PNU's annual delegates' conference on October 29 was funded by the county government of Meru. But speaking in Makutano, Mr Munya rubbished the claim, saying the party's members from various parts of the country had spent their own money. “PNU party supporters have contributed their money and fuelled their vehicles for this rally. Do not take in the lies being peddled by the Senator that PNU is spending county government funds,” Mr Munya said. The Meru governor said Mr Murungi should prepare for "the duel of his life" and that he had been assured of re-election. “We are sending Mr Kiraitu to his retirement,” he said. But speaking separately, Mr Murungi said PNU was heading nowhere and that he would retire on his own volition. “I am not going anywhere. Mr Munya will not tell me when to retire from politics but I will retire when I want. I am assuring him that I will give my best in the 2017 political campaigns. Those who are joining PNU have lost the way,” the senator said. Mr Munya addressed supporters in Katherine, Timau, Kiirua, Meru and Nkubu and is expected to hold more meetings on Saturday and Sunday.  