The average Kenyan woman would rather have a man at any position of leadership instead of a woman, according to a survey. The findings are contained in a Consumer Insight study conducted in December last year. The results were released this month. They corroborate the US elections, where millions of American women voted for billionaire Donald Trump, helping to elect him the 45th President. A preliminary analysis by the National Election Pool showed that while the men placed their weight behind their own, Mr Trump, Hillary Clinton, the democrats’ candidate, was unable to win over the women, the non-college educated ones especially. According to the exit polls, 64 per cent of the non-college educated women voted for Mr Trump in contrast to only 35 per cent who backed Mrs Clinton. Findings of the Consumer Insight study suggest that just as American women preferred to have a man holding the top leadership position in the country, even the Kenyan woman prefers to have a male boss, confirming the widespread belief that women are their own worst enemies. According to the study, only 19 per cent of women prefer to have a female boss while a man sitting at the helm is preferred by 45 per cent of women. Some 36 per cent of women are indifferent to the gender of the person who holds the top job. A POSSIBILITY This dislike of female bosses could be based on assumptions rather than facts, notes Ms Ruth Ruigu, the associate research director at Consumer Insight. “Generally, female leaders are scrutinised more closely than male leaders, men in leadership positions get away with things that women in the same positions can’t. The dislike of female leaders could be as a result of the common negative assumptions regarding women’s leadership styles and capabilities,” she says. The research was done through face-to-face interviews of 1,339 adult women in Nairobi, Nyeri, Kisumu Mombasa and Eldoret. Other possible explanations for women preferring male led establishments to ones that have female bosses is the competition that women have amongst themselves. “This competition amongst women where each wants to be the best could lead a working woman to assume that a male boss will be more supportive of her than a female boss,” says Ken Ouko, a sociologist at the University of Nairobi. If findings of the study are anything to go by, the assumption that women are discriminated against at the work place could be false. The advantages that society believes men have over women at the workplace could be perceived rather than real. Apparently, only six per cent Kenyan women believe that they face discrimination at the work place based on their gender. RIGHT PATH With the closing gender gaps and the shifting gender roles, it looks like the Kenyan employer is on the right path with regard to creating and implementing fair workplace practices. “We could be making strides or it could be that women do not feel discriminated against at the workplace because they have accepted the working conditions given to them by their employers. There could also be a lack of transparency about pay meaning that the women are not even aware that they are being discriminated against,” notes Mr Ouko. Unfortunately, as much as we are on the right path, it may be impossible to totally weed out gender based discrimination at the workplace because where it does happen, women do not report it and it goes unaddressed. Some 52 per cent of Kenyan women who get discriminated at the workplace do nothing about it, says the study. For those who report the discrimination incidents, very few of them go to the human resources department. Mrs Ruigu notes that seeing as the woman is still subjected to much more scrutiny at the work place than the man, she probably chooses not to do anything about sexual harassment for fear of losing her job.  