Journalists in Kisumu on Monday protested against a proposed law by the Kenya Film Classification Board that seeks to control media content. Under the Kisumu Journalists Network (KJN), the protesters marched in the town chanting slogans against the Films, Stage Plays and Publications Bill, 2016. They also warned the police against intimidating journalists on duty. They marched from Jomo Kenyatta sports ground where they had convened. Some of the placards they carried read: “Don’t shoot the messenger”, “Journalists, too, deserve freedom”, “Polisi waache ubaradhuli (police should stop being gullible)” and “Gazeti si ya kufunga nyama (Newspapers are not for wrapping meat)”. Flanked by rights activists Audi Ogada and Chris Owala at a press briefing, KJN chairman Dickson Odhiambo also sought answers to the gruesome murder of Citizen Weekly newspaper’s Francis Nyaruri in 2009 and mysterious deaths of Standard Group reporter Joseph Masha in September and Wesonga Ochieng’ of The Star in 2013. He told Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet to act on police officers who harass journalists. “The Films, Stage Plays and Publications Bill 2016 not only seeks to control the media content but also threatens media freedom,” the KJN boss said. Some of the contentious issues like licensing of mobile phones used in taking photos he said will infringe on the Journalists privacy and will lead to interference in their work. Mr Ogada told Members of Parliament (MPs) and Senators to ensure the bill is first subjected to public participation and media stakeholders involved in its drafting to ensure clauses which threaten press freedom are expunged. “The MPs must stand up and protect press freedom. Without freedom, Journalists will not be able to effectively cover corruption in both levels of the Government. Let us protect the messengers,” Mr Ogada said. Mr Odhiambo told KFCB Chairman Ezekiel Mutua to operate within the framework on the board and not to create autocratic rules in the industry. The Journalists’ protests in Kisumu came barely a day after the Kenya Union of Journalists called for editing of the Bill. KUJ Secretary Erick Oduor said the Bill poses a big threat to freedom of the press and demanded its immediate withdrawal. “Stakeholders were not involved in the drafting of the Bill which has many offensive clauses that need to be removed,” Mr Oduor said. He said the Bill is passed in its current form will water down the milestones made in the freedom of the media. The Bill gives KFCB powers to control circulation of content on social media. Mr Oduor maintained that the board must also be reconstituted to have “professionals” run it.   The Union rejected the Films, Stage Plays and Publications Bill 2016.