Kenya Under-23 women’s volleyball coach Catherine Mabwi says she is excited to be working with the country’s next crop of stars. The trainer, an ex-international who turned out for top Sudan club El Hilal among others sides, is currently preparing the youth team for the forthcoming Africa Nations Championship. The Confederation of African Volleyball confirmed on Monday that the 10-day inaugural competition will be staged at the Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani in Nairobi from October 19. Eight teams have confirmed participation including hosts Kenya, Senegal, Tunisia, Botswana, Egypt and Rwanda. WINNERS' STAKE At stake for the winning team in this continental competition is a berth in the U-23 World Championship in Slovenia next year. “We have to go to Slovenia. Last time, other teams were complaining we had been handed a direct nomination to compete at the World Championship in Mexico. Now we want to show them that we are the best just like our senior sisters,” Mabwi said on Friday. As part of their preparations, the team has played three build up matches at the venue of the tournament, winning twice - against Nairobi Water and KCB and losing to reigning Kenyan champions Pipeline. “The players we have selected are very talented, but are less experienced. These friendlies are helping us fine tune and work out on formations here and there,” Mabwi added. Among the players set to feature prominently in Mabwi’s set up during the continental championship are ex - Kwanthanze High School duo Yvonne Wavinya and Anne Lowem, plus St Paul’s University upcoming setter Faith Immodia. SQUAD Pauline Nafula (KCB), Doreen Marani (KCB), Yvonne Sinaida (Kenya Pipeline), Veronica Tanui (Kenya Pipeline), Damaris Kamaina (Nairobi Water), Ednah Mwombe (Kenya Pipeline), Sarah Were (Unattached), Celestine Nyongesa (Kenya Pipeline), Maureen Agwalas (Nairobi Water), Ann Lowem (Kenya Prisons), Yvonne Wavinya (Kenya Prisons), Shyrine Jepkemboi (Kenya Prisons), Beldine Akinyi (Kenya Pipeline), Faith Immodia (St Paul’s University), Maureen Nanjala (Kenyatta University), Leah Akumu (Strathmore University). Technical bench: Catherine Mabwi (head coach), Josep Baraza (Assistant coach) Vinny Khayinga (Trainer).  