GROWING MELONSKindly send me a step-by-step process of growing watermelons, from land preparation to harvest. Farmer Propagation: Melons are commonly direct seeded, except under conditions where the growing season is short, whereby transplants raised in containers are used. For the direct seeded, the planting depth is about 2cm and between row spacing is 1.5-1.8m, while the intra-row spacing is 30-60cm. Fertiliser: Application of nitrogenous fertilisers is based on soil type. Soils with high organic matter require 80kg N/ha, while light soils require 140kg N/ha. The nitrogenous fertiliser should be applied and incorporated into the soil at planting time. Phosphorus and potassium applications are based on soil tests, and both should also be applied at the time of planting. Depending on the environmental conditions, 450-600mm of water is required within a growing season. Weed control: Weeds should be adequately controlled, especially when the melon plants are young. Weeds which grow upright offer greater competition by shading the melon plants. Weed control can be achieved by application of black plastic mulches, cultivation, and use of herbicides. Diseases and insect pests: Melons suffer most of the diseases and insect pests that attack other cucurbits. Diseases such as powdery mildew, downy mildew, alternaria leaf spot, anthracnose, and fusarium wilt cause problems under certain conditions. Insect pests such as cucumber beetle, which is a vector for bacterial wilt, aphids, flea beetles, and melon worms too cause problems. Harvesting: Watermelon is ready for harvest in about three to four months. Maturity is indicated when the fruit gives off a hollow sound when tapped with knuckles. The fruit stem should be cut with a sharp knife rather than broken by hand. Carol Mutua, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** FARMING TOMATOES ON CONTRACT I want to plant five acres of tomatoes, who can contract me? Chomba The best deals for contract farming are with processing companies such as Peptang, Njoro Canning and Kevian Kenya Ltd, among others. They will guide you on the production process to achieve their desired quality. You can also try to negotiate a contract with the supermarkets.   Other contactors include schools, both primary and secondary, and institutes of higher education such as universities and colleges. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** TEACH ME HOW TO GROW MUSHROOMS I want to grow mushrooms in Nyamira County but I do not have access to seeds or an institution or individual to check if the house that I’ll build is well moisturised and the mixture for the composite has enough substrates. My request is kindly refer me to an expert. Winnie Nchogu Mushroom production is a profitable venture. In Egerton University, there is a Department of Biological Sciences that specialises in the production of mushroom seeds (spores). The department also has mushroom production experts such as Prof Wagara who will assist you through the production process.   Please find time to visit the department for more consultations and training. You can also talk to farmer Joseph Hinga on 0787128791. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** BEESWAX EXTRACTOR I am interested in using a steam extractor to get beeswax. Where can one get this machine? Jack Rutto Beeswax is a beehive product extracted from combs. It can be used in making candles, shoe polish as well as in the cosmetics industry. Steam wax extractor, one of the apparatus used to extract this hive product, consists of two connected tanks, with one inside the other. It uses steam from high temperature boiling water to pour out wax. This equipment can be obtained with the help of modern bee equipment suppliers like The Hive Group reachable at +254706349748 and the National Beekeeping Station located next to Lenana School off Ngong Road. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** ZERO-GRAZING UNIT I need a sample of a standard smallholder zero-grazing unit as I want to start dairy farming. Please send me a copy. Kamandu   A comfortable cow environment can be achieved by offering proper housing that takes care of standard or recommended measurements and clean hygiene maintenance. Mail me at akatchf@yahoo.com for a copy of cow barn designs, but at a fee. You can also visit ‘resources’ on my website www.dairycloud.co.ke for a free copy the same, developed by the Kenya-Market Led Programme. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Science, Egerton University. **** WEEDS ON METHI FARM Which herbicide can control weeds on a methi farm and when should I apply, pre or post-emergence? Martin, Olkalau The use of herbicides should be timely, applied at correct dosage and during favourable weather conditions. The first round of herbicide should be applied just before planting.   This is a non-selective herbicide such as Weedal or Round up. Unfortunately, there is no herbicide that is selective for methi, thus, post-emergence herbicides cannot be applied. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University.   Send your questions on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing and agricultural innovations to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com