While authorities in the UK are busy lobbying for smoother driving to cut traffic pollution and save lives, in Kenya we are busy erecting bumps, for we think they may save lives. A lot has been said about the Karai accident that took more than 40 lives last Saturday. So far, the Ministry of Transport, the National Transport and Safety Authority (NTSA), the police and county officials have been locked in an ugly blame-shifting exercise that demeans them all. It is saddening to see this usual blame-shifting going on between government agencies, yet we still lack key information and proper answers to our questions. Who owned the Canter that was originally thought to be a tanker? Where was it coming from and where was it going? What material was it ferrying? We have heard vague assertions about Ugandan number plates, inexperienced drivers, some flammable material, etc. But until the exact details are established the blame game is irrelevant, unfair and at best, inaccurate. Remedies cannot be put in place without data. NOBODY GOES TO JAIL What happened at Karai is a reflection of our current approach to problems. We have created more and more institutions to resolve our ever-increasing problems, but have not undertaken a proper rationalisation of functions, duties and responsibilities. The fact is, we have spread the risk of being blamed among several new and old institutions; we have scattered responsibility. We have confused the authorities, the police, the Transport ministry, the county and NTSA officials. All seem unable to pinpoint responsibilities. Everyone seems guilty but nobody goes to jail, and we still hope somebody will find solutions. More than 20 years ago, in May 1995, W. Odero published a study in the East African Medical Journal, titled “Road traffic accidents in Kenya: an epidemiological appraisal.” He had studied the statistics and associated accident causes in depth. Odero found that between 1962 and 1992, the numbers killed rose by 578 per cent, while non-fatal casualties rose by 506 per cent. The fatality rate per 10,000 vehicles increased from 50.7 to 64.2, while fatality per 100,000 population ranged between 7.3 and 8.6. He also found that 66 per cent of the accidents occurred during daytime, and human factors were responsible for 85 per cent of all causes. This trend has worsened. According to NTSA statistics, 2,655 people died in Kenya between January 1 and November 27, 2016. This represents a slight improvement, if we consider that in the same period the previous year, 2,715 people died on the road. Truth be told, we are not the worst in the world but we are doing pretty badly, especially if we take into account that our mobility per capita is quite limited. SLEEPING POLICEMEN Kenya still has one of the highest road fatality rates in the world, with an average of 29.1 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants in 2015, almost 12 points above the world average of 17.4. According to this Wikipedia tally, the African average was almost three points below Kenya, at 26.6 deaths per 100,000 inhabitants. In Europe it was 9.3 and Australia 5.08. Road fatality in Kenya was outdone by countries such as Central African Republic, Burkina Faso, Dominican Republic, The Gambia, Liberia, Libya, Mozambique and Thailand. Clearly driving is suicidal in some of these countries. Travelling in Kenya calls for blessings, and reaching your destination may qualify as an achievement. We cannot get to sleep until our travelling relatives tell us that they have arrived safely. Then we sigh with great relief, just like in the Wild West. How many more must die for us to resurrect the Michuki rules? This was Kenyan transportation’s golden age. Michuki, as Transport minister, managed to enforce rules for the first time in many years and restored order. Police stopped receiving bribes and matatu operators began to fear the consequences of breaking the law. Alas, as soon as Michuki left the ministry it was back to business as usual. Many people have blamed the Karai incident on poorly erected speed bumps that workers created on a high-traffic national trunk road. What are bumps, however? Bumps are the material failure of the rule of law on the road. We erect a bump because the police have given up, neighbours are fed up, speed signs are not followed and bribes are paid. Every bump on a major road is a monument to our disrespect for the rule of law. Bumps are the easy way out, and in some countries they are actually called “sleeping policemen”. Bumps built on major roads become serial killers: they spoil vehicles, cause more accidents and lead to the very deaths they were intended to prevent. Is there anything more irrational? PRISON TEA We do not paint bumps because we do not really care about lives. Negligence and corruption drink the paint, usually leaving the job unfinished. This is a clear sign that supervisors take bribes, for no serious road repair or construction project is tendered without provision for painting and signage. We see well-painted lanes only on new roads, and they usually do not last, due to too much thinning. Paint, when it is used, is often watered down like prison tea. We consider the basics of road maintenance, which involves painting, signs, cat, eyes, etc., a luxury. They are left to deteriorate so much that meaningful repair means building a whole new road. What happened at Karai can happen anywhere in Kenya. Anyone who has driven recently between Nairobi and Kisumu or Busia has experienced the bumps. We have tried all the possible wrong, superficial solutions, and we are still surprised that people die on our roads. Absurd speed limits increased revenue but did not lower deaths. We have tried more bumps, police checks, toll stations (legal and illegal) and tarmacking some roads. Why does nothing seem to work? All said and done, the problem is not Karai or bumps but something much deeper, and we are turning a blind eye to it. CRIMINAL LIABILITY If I may, I would like to suggest three possible triggers for some sanity on our roads. First, an urgent change in the fine collection system, where money is paid directly to a well-known account on the spot, and receipts issued without arrest and without cash exchanging hands with any police officer. Second, the establishment of rational speed limits on the main highways, which should be monitored by police patrol cars and not police checkpoints, which turn out to be corrupt cash cows. Third, we need to raise our game around flammable substances. For example, in the United States, the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act of 1975 establishes that “a person is liable for a civil penalty of up to $75,000 for each violation of a regulation, order, special permit or approval of the Act”. This penalty may be revised upwards to $175,000 if the violation results in death, serious illness or injury to any person, or in substantial damage to property. In case of death, the Act also imposes criminal liability which may result in imprisonment for a period of between five and 10 years. LAWS ON INFLAMMABLE SUBSTANCES A highly flammable liquid, according to Section 2 of the Occupational Safety and Health Act of Kenya is "any liquid, liquid solution, emulsion or suspension which gives off a flammable vapour at a temperature of less than 32 degrees centigrade." Whereas the Occupational Safety and Health Act has very good provisions on inflammable substances, they are limited to handling within a workstation setting. Section 2 of the Environmental Management and Coordination Act (EMCA) of Kenya defines hazardous substances to mean "any chemical, waste, gas, medicine, drug, plant, animal or microorganism which is likely to be injurious to human health or the environment." Section 92 of EMCA states that the Cabinet secretary may make regulations prescribing the procedure and criteria for distribution, storage, transportation and handling of chemicals and other hazardous materials. However, the Cabinet secretary is yet to make such specific regulations that govern the distribution, storage and transportation of highly flammable substances. Government has passed some regulations, but these deal with the production, use, transportation and disposal of specific substances, such as halogenated flourochemicals, hydrobromoflourocarbons and other ozone-depleting chemicals. The most specific, solid regulation on transportation of inflammable substances in Kenya is "The Energy (Licensing of Petroleum Road Transportation Business) Regulations", enacted in 2013 by the Cabinet secretary of Energy and Petroleum, related to Section 102 of the Energy Act of 2006. These regulations are limited to petroleum products. Section 8 contains a list of limitations, one of which requires that “petroleum tankers are only driven between 6.30am and 6.30pm.” Therefore, leaving petroleum products aside, we have just a few shallow regulations applicable to the transportation of highly flammable substances in Kenya I hope it is now clear that our accident-prone roads and chaotic response drama are not just a matter of bumps, paints and bribes. It goes deeper, to our institutional capacity, coordination, enforcement and responsibility, and requires appropriate legislation and hefty penalties. Dr Franceschi is the dean of Strathmore Law School. Lfranceschi@strathmore.edu; Twitter: @lgfranceschi  