President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy William Ruto took the battle for South Rift votes to the doorstep of rebellious Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, telling him his defection would not dent their support. Baringo Senator Gideon Moi was on also on the receiving end as Mr Kenyatta dismissed his request for direct interaction with him instead of going through the Deputy President. Speaking in Bomet town on Saturday when he laid the foundation stone for the construction of Bomet University, a constituent of Moi University, the Head of State said he trusted his deputy and would not heed advice from any other quarter. “I have read in the newspapers that you don’t want William anymore. Is it true?” he asked. He said he would not look for someone else to replace the DP as requested by Senator Moi, who is Kanu chairman. “You picked me as the President, William as my deputy, we made Joyce Laboso the Deputy Speaker (National Assembly) and we pushed for Governor Isaac Ruto to be the first Council of Governors chairman. If one of us moves out, does that stop us from working as a team? No, the team will remain. We will work together,” he said. Recently, Mr Moi asked the President to address the region’s residents, saying the majority had lost trust in the DP. Mr Moi and Governor Ruto are considered “rebels” by Jubilee supporters for falling out with Mr Kenyatta and the DP. Mr Moi has remained in the independence party while Governor Ruto has bolted out of Jubilee, on whose ticket he was elected, and formed a new party, Chama Cha Mashinani. He has roped in some MPs from the South Rift, notably Kuresoi South’s Zakayo Cheruiyot and his Emurua Dikirr counterpart Johana Ng’eno. Mr Ruto and Mr Moi have recently been linked to the proposed opposition coalition, the National Super Alliance (Nasa), fronted by Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi and Cord leader Raila Odinga. CRITICISED GOVERNOR RUTO It is against this background that Mr Kenyatta and the DP appeared to aim their guns on the “rebels” during their tour. The President and his Deputy criticised Governor Ruto for lodging a case in court against construction of the university, which Mr Kenyatta described as unbelievable, while the DP said it was unwise. President Kenyatta said he had directed Attorney-General Githu Muigai to be enjoined in the case, now in the Court of Appeal. He said the matter was no longer between the university and the county but between his government and Kenyans. “I still do not believe someone would go to court to block the construction of a university. I have asked the AG to be enjoined in the case. The university is not only for the people of Bomet but for all Kenyans,” he said. The President chided people claiming his Deputy was losing support in the region, saying this was being propagated by a biased media. DP Ruto, buoyed by the President’s three-day visit to the Rift Valley, said the region was behind Jubilee and would not be swayed by individuals with selfish interests. “The President did not come to Bomet as a tourist. He is bringing development. You elected us to work for you and this is exactly what we are doing,” said the DP. But besides playing politics, the President and his Deputy appeared to dedicate their tour of the South Rift region to launching several development projects ranging from road construction to upgrading of medical facilities and universities. It had been the trend during Mr Kenyatta’s and Mr Ruto’s tour of Ukambani counties of Makueni and Machakos earlier in the week where they commissioned medical facilities and road works running into hundreds of millions of shillings in what appears like a deliberate campaign strategy ahead of the next General Election. DP Ruto has repeatedly stated that the next General Election will be a contest between Jubilee’s development record against the opposition’s “empty rhetoric” and the duo’s tour of the three regions appeared to be deliberately calculated to showcase this development. SEVERAL ROAD PROJECTS From Ukambani, the duo travelled to DP Ruto’s North Rift backyard where they commissioned similar projects in several constituencies, also running into hundreds of millions of shillings. Mr Kenyatta and Mr Ruto extended the government’s largesse to Kericho and Bomet counties in South Rift, initiating several road projects in the two regions. Speaking in Bomet on Saturday, DP Ruto said the government had set aside Sh1 billion for electricity connection in the county, Sh400 million for the new university and millions of shillings for road construction in the region. He also said Sh100 million had been allocated to each of the five sub-counties for technical institutions. The DP also used the occasion to dismiss the proposed opposition super alliance, saying it was a plan to share positions by power-hungry individuals. “The alliance is only for hungry people who are dividing non-existent posts,” he said. President Kenyatta later commissioned new equipment at the Longisa Referral Hospital. He had earlier addressed residents at Chebunyo trading centre in Chepalungu constituency and launched the tarmacking of the Daraja Sita-Chebole-Dikirr Road. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale, who accompanied the President, told Governor Ruto to prepare for a humiliating defeat next year. “Mwambie Isaac pesa si ya mama yake (Tell Isaac the county’s money does not belong to his mother). This is a Jubilee zone and he should be ready for defeat,” said Mr Duale. Elgeyo-Marakwet Senator Kipchumba Murkomen accused the governor of spending county funds on his party’s offices. “It is unacceptable that a whole governor is moving around opening offices using your funds,” he said.  