Violent scenes characterised Jubilee elections across the country as the party sought to pick officials to lead it ahead of next year’s polls, contrary to expectations that the exercise would be smooth. Power struggles, bitter rivalry and clannism were evident as the polls were held, with parallel exercises being held in some counties, bringing out the underlying differences in a party that President Uhuru Kenyatta is expected to use for his re-election. However, in some counties, there was relative calm as delegates elected interim office holders. In Uasin-Gishu County, for instance, interim officials were picked amid complaints by some aspirants that the exercise was not free and fair. Governor Jackson Mandago, however, downplayed the rifts insisting that the exercise went on smoothly and asked the party’s national office to accept their list.   KICKS AND BLOWS Nonetheless, violent scenes were witnessed during the elections, with some delegates exchanging blows as falling out on the list of candidates. Some delegates accused senior politicians in certain regions of meddling in the exercise by sneaking in the names of their cronies. Consequently, the exercise held at the Boma Inn Hotel in Eldoret was almost called off as a result of the fracas. Returning Officer Albert Nemusi had a hectic time bringing the meeting to order. “The interim officials have not been elected. Their duty will only be to oversee party issues at the grassroots as we set up structures,” he said. “None of the interim officials will be aspirants in 2017 election to avoid conflict of interest,” he added.   EXERCISE ABORTS The exercise aborted in Laikipia after chaos erupted with delegates exchanging blows when they differed on the formula to pick their officials. A delegate was left bleeding from the cheek after receiving a blow from another. The meeting at Thingithu Secondary School in Nanyuki turned chaotic soon after Mr Jammies Wafubwa and Ibrahim Muthengi from the party’s secretariat announced their proposed a formula to be used. The proposal was that the governor, senator, MPs and the woman representative elect six officials, all the members of the county assembly six officials, all the aspirants six and the disabled six. The meeting exploded into chaos as delegates flocked the dais rejecting the formula. When normalcy resumed it was agreed that each of the three sub-counties picks six officials each and the disabled one. “President Uhuru Kenyatta got 72,000 votes in Laikipia West compared to 9,000 votes that he got in Laikipia North so we should have more slots,” area MP Wachira Karani said but he was ejected was booed and jeered. Mr Muthengi also ruled him out saying the issue of the formula of the election had already been agreed upon and it was now about presenting the names. More chaos broke out after some of the delegates rejected a nominee presented by the disabled. Mr Muthengi and Mr Wafubwa sneaked out of the hall as some of the aspirant started trading blowing and shoving each other. Laikipia East MP Anthony Mutahi and Mr Karani called off the meeting saying the final exercise could not go on due to chaos. “The 19 officials that have already been picked by sub-branches and the disabled will be brought together somewhere to elect officials later,” Mr Muthengi said. Most of the aspirants had sponsored people to participate in the polls.   THE ‘STRONGHOLD’ Businessmen George Mati and Isaac Mugo were elected chairman and county secretary respectively in Tharaka-Nithi County. Initially, the exercise was cancelled at Kathwana market due to security concerns. Delegates from Maara sub-county had also disagreed on the list of names submitted to Jubilee secretariat director Abraham Limo who oversaw the exercise. “It was a vigorous exercise but we are optimistic that these officials will work to popularise Jubilee in Tharaka-Nithi. We are now going to submit the names to the Jubilee Party National office,” said Mr Limo. Senator Kithure Kindiki and Jubilee campaigns presidential campaign Head Petkay Miriti exuded confidence that the team would ensure Jubilee gains ground in the county referred to as the “Stronghold.” “Our county is a good example to the rest of the country about peaceful elections. We have confidence in these officials. We know them and the kind of work they can do,” said Prof Kindiki. Mr Miriti said the peaceful elections herald a new beginning for Jubilee in the region. However, Governor Samuel Ragwa said elections should have started at the ward level to avoid confusion.   Elsewhere in Mombasa, irate delegates disrupted the exercise claiming some leaders had been secretly picked and imposed on them. Trouble started after the arrival of former TNA secretary-general Onyango Oloo at the Kenya School of Government at about 11am and called the ‘delegates’ to order. Immediately, Mr Oloo explained the requirements for the interim officials and allowed questions, the hell broke loose, with some aspirants finding themselves in a catch-22 situation because they lacked registration fee receipts. Efforts by Mr Oloo, who was the returning officer, to restore law and order fell on deaf ears as rowdy supporters of Ramadhan Mwatsahu went wild. PROPERTY DESTROYED In the ensuing confusion, the mob frog-matched Mr Oloo while chanting Mr Mwsatsahu’s name, wreaking havoc at the institution. Tables, chairs and window panes of dining hall were broken. Sensing danger of more damages, security officers were ordered to kick out of the facility the disorderly delegates and whisked away Mr Oloo to safety.Earlier, Mr Oloo had denied accusations that he had received a list of preferred officials for the county.   “Some 11 persons came to my hotel room but I declined to talk to them. That is why I am here to ensure only those 19 elected officials’ names go to Nairobi,” he said. But former Mombasa Mayor Ali Shekue questioned why those involved in the exercise did not seal off the venue before allowing people to access the government facility. The front-runners in the contest were Ibrahim Khamis ‘Babangida’, Ramadhan Ali Mwatsahu, Anania Mwaboza and Suleiman Shahbal. TIGHT SECURITY Twelve hours later, the elections were held albeit amid tight security with GSU officers deployed at the Kenya School of Government. The group allied to Suleiman Shahball led by Chairman Matano Chengo carried the day after the opposing group allied to Ananiah Mwaboza left the venue. It was led by Mr Ali Mwatsahu. Mr Chengo was elected the county chairman, Mr Patrick Kabundu the Secretary, Mr Maamun Abubakar Trteasurer and Ms Amina Abdalla the Organising Secretary. In his maiden speech, Mr Chengo said he will re-organise the party by embracing the opposing group and cement its position in Mombasa, a strong ODM zone, to win seats in next year’s General Election. “We will work with everybody. We will form grassroots committees with membership from both groups because we know it’s only through unity that we will be able to deliver seats for Jubilee,” he said. Former Changamwe MP Ramadhan Kajembe hailed the new team and urged it to deliver and erode the notion that Mombasa and the coast is an ODM zone. Only delegates, aspirants and the media were allowed into the voting hall. The election was through consensus with a candidate being proposed and seconded for a certain position. It was conducted by Jubilee Secretary General Onyango Oloo. In Taita Taveta County, over 500 Jubilee supporters protested after they were locked out of the exercise held at Galaxy Hotel in Voi. Led by Coast Water Services Board Director Faustine Mgendi and Water and Irrigation Board Director Anna Kina, they accused Taveta MP Naomi Shaaban of handpicking delegates. “In the first place, the delegates were handpicked and some of us were left out yet we have been supporting President Uhuru Kenyatta and his Deputy William Ruto even in the last election,” said Ms Kina. Mr Mghendi said he has been leading thousands of supporters in monthly party meetings to sell the party that had little support in the area. Taita Taveta is an Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) stronghold. The Voi Sisal owner Zahid Din was elected as the Taita Taveta Jubilee chairperson but when contacted, Dr Shaaban declined.   WAIGURU ALLY WINS Former Devolution Cabinet Secretary Anne Waiguru’s ally was elected the Kirinyaga interim chairperson in polls held in Kutus. The exercise took a record 30 minutes as selected people were allowed to read out on the agreed names as aspirants and the incumbents agreed on lists of officials a day before the elections. Outspoken Director of Ndima Tea Factory John Mithamo was named the chairperson. However, there was disagreement on the list after it emerged that one of the interim officials was above 35 years contrary to the party's constitution. Jubilee party national member David Koech had to intervene and ask the aspirants to agree on another person.   CLAN FACTOR Kirinyaga Governor Joseph Ndathi sat among other elected leaders. Ms Waiguru was present. "We are not here to tell you who to elect. We are here to build a strong party that will steer our president back to State House," said Koech. The clan factor became emotive in Wajir County as supporters disagreed on the criteria to be used in picking the officials. Some had proposed that the officials be chosen based on sub-counties while others wanted clan to be the main criterion. The clan factor carried the day with the Degodia, the largest clan, being given eight positions, Arjuran and the Ogaden, five positions each, while other clans were given one slot after lengthy consultations. Mr Muhumed Mohamud Dahiye was appointed the interim chairman while Wajir East MP Abbas Sheikh was elected the Jubilee point man in the county. The final list was released after the various clans engaged in talks and appointed their favourites. “We have incorporated the balance between the culture of negotiations and the constitution. This is why we allowed consultations among the various communities. Our clan has a history of electing leaders through negotiations by the elders," said Mr Isack Hassan, the region's Jubilee national representative. VENUE CHANGED The script was the same in Kitui County after the party’s supporters were informed that the venue announced earlier had been changed. There were near chaos after the delegates were locked outside Kitui Hotel. Onetime Kenya Broadcasting Corporation (KBC) Managing Director Caxton Munyoki was elected the interim Chairman in the exercise chaired by Ms Wanjiru Kariuki from Jubilee headquarters. Some irate supporters who claimed to be bona fide delegates of JP tried to force their way into the venue but were barred by armed police officers until voting was over.   CAMPAIGN AGAINST JUBILEE “How can we wake up so early in the morning to show our support for President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election outfit only to be frustrated by few people guided by selfish interests,” one of them said. They accused Mwingi Central MP Joe Mutambu and his Kitui South counterpart Rachael Nyamai of denying them chance “to exercise our democratic rights to elect grassroots officials.” They threatened to ensure that Jubilee does not get meaningful votes from Kitui unless the two “selfish legislators” were dropped from party’s campaign team in the county. However, Mr Mutambu and Ms Nyamai clarified that only elected leaders and aspirants with fully-paid membership of JP were allowed to vote, adding the exercise was a party affair and not a public baraza where everyone could be allowed to participate. A total of 19 representatives were picked to steer the party’s campaigns in the county. Reports by Mwakera Mwajefa, Daniel Nyassy and Lucy Mkanyika, Joseph Kanyi, George Munene, Wycliff Kipsang, Brenda Gamonde, Thomas Waita, Muchiri Gitonga, Bruhan Makong, Kennedy Kimanthi And Alex Njeru.  