Since my exposé last Friday of a classified advertiser who conned readers by pretending he could investigate, among other things, their partner’s extramarital affairs, I have been receiving a torrent of complaints from readers who have been defrauded through fraudulent ads. But therein lies two important lessons. The first is that nobody is immune to advertising fraud. The second is that advertising fraud is a worldwide phenomenon. It will not go away. Every time you get rid of one con man another one pops up. This is not to say that we should give up. While we cannot eliminate fraudsters altogether, there are ways to avoid them. The first thing is to follow the advice given in the Nation classified ads: Make appropriate enquiries and take advice before sending money. The second is to look for telltale signs for possible fraud. These will vary according to the particulars of each ad. In general, one should be suspicious of classified ads that offer deals that are too good to be true, such as prices or interest rates that are far below the market or economic levels, or ads that promise to deliver what is usually not easily attainable, such as getting a smashing figure with “no gym” or a cure-all “African herbal pill”, or ads whose wording is too general or contains doubtful facts. And once you get involved in a deal, you should be on the look out for suspicious appearances or behaviour, such as lack of a proper office or staff or failure to respond in time or as expected. INTELLIGENT READER Also remember that even if you are smart you can still be defrauded. A classic example is that of an intelligent reader who wants to remain anonymous. He lost Sh205,000 trying to get a loan to buy a car worth Sh810,000. In October this year he read in the Sunday Nation about a company calling itself Maximum Logistics that claimed to be in the asset financing business. He googled information about the company, including the manager’s name, which was given as Michael M. He did not follow his instincts. Instead, he called the company and a young-sounding man who identified himself as Kennedy responded and told him that their offices were on Karen Road. “I sort of forgot about them but about a week later, Kennedy called asking whether I was still interested in their financing. I went to the offices but he claimed he had just left for town but someone would assist me. A girl of about 19-24 years met me at the gates of [the premises]. I asked a few questions about the company and I noticed the girl had difficulties explaining who the owners were, but she said Kennedy and another one, only described as a young man, were salesmen and the “Boss” was based in Mombasa. I duly filled a loan application form which was approved within two days.” REPAYMENT INTEREST The loan repayment interest was given as 10 per cent. Monthly repayments would be Sh21,055 for 36 months. One of the conditions was that he had to pay a deposit of Sh150,000 and one monthly instalment before getting the loan. On 18 October he paid Sh100,000 and on 27 October Sh21,055 through the Bank of Africa. He noticed that the payment slips showed the P.O. Box number for Maximum Logistics was the same as that of the Nation Media Group – 49010 – and not 1245 as shown in the letter offering him the loan or the information he googled. Thus he paid the required amounts for loan processing. But there were suspicious hints, including “the deal was taking too long even after I had paid the required fees”. To cut a long story short, when he decided to visit their offices he found a padlock and no one in sight. “I asked the guards at the entrance about the individuals who had been operating from there and was told they had vanished three days earlier! They also said very many people had come around asking for them… Their numbers are now switched off.” Nobody is immune to advertising fraud.  Send your complaints to publiceditor@ke.nationmedia.com; call or text 0721989264.  