Evidence that Kenya is owned and run by organised crime was provided over the weekend with the heart-rending story of a Nairobi family whose house was demolished by hired thugs as the police refused to protect them. One would have to be a heartless beast not to be moved by the plight of a family that was secretly dispossessed of the house it had owned and lived in for a generation. Nazmudin Kurji and his wife Parin sought official protection in vain. The Parklands police station commander refused to intervene as a group of armed thugs deployed by the grabbers violently evicted the family at the crack of dawn on Sunday. One can only assume that the local police chiefs were in the pay of the land grabbers or were following instructions from higher authorities. If he did not know or sanction what happened, Inspector-General of Police Joseph Boinnet should take urgent action. The Parklands boss chief should by now have been interdicted or, better still, held in a cell with other criminals. This is also a matter that should catch the attention of Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery, presuming that he can divert his attention from petty politics long enough to protect Kenyans from criminals. Lands Cabinet Secretary Jacob Kaimenyi should also be closely scrutinised, for it must be somewhere between his office and that of the National Land Commission, chaired by Muhammad Swazuri, that the irregular transactions were conceived and executed. Not to be left out is Nairobi Governor Evans Kidero, whose administration seems intent on outdoing the Jubilee government on official corruption, waste, plunder, theft, and mismanagement. Seeing as Nairobi is a Cord government, opposition leader Raila Odinga will also want to get involved in seeing that justice is done, provided that the anti-corruption crusader can for once step back from his usual reflex of defending robbery and corruption when perpetrated by his political allies. POWER-SHARING DUO Then there is the power-sharing and meat-eating duo of President Uhuru Kenyatta and Deputy President William Ruto, under whose watch corruption, land grabbing, and all manner of thieving activities have rebounded in a fashion to rival the excesses of the Kanu kleptocracy. The Jubilee government talks big on fighting corruption, while specialising in pointing fingers and passing the buck. One can expect that in the wake of the Sunday morning outrage, the official hecklers, regime mouthpieces, propagandists and social media mercenaries will be deployed to defend the regime by pointing the finger at Mr Odinga and the Cord government in the capital city. Already, I have seen on social media some Jubilee supporters offering the inane justification that the Kurjis deserve what they got on account of their skin colour. The retards forget that thieves do not discriminate on colour, religion, or tribe. One day they will be the targets. One can also expect that the opposition hordes will be just as busy throwing stones in the other direction, and caught in the middle of the maelstrom will be an innocent, bewildered family with no roof over its head. The Cord administration in the city no doubt has a lot to answer for, but ultimately the buck stops with the national government that was given the sacred mandate to protect Kenyans from thieves and criminals and generally guarantee law, order and security for all. This is what President Kenyatta and his deputy cannot run away from. Any efforts to pass blame, declaim responsibility or plead helplessness cannot be allowed to pass. If the culprits are in the county government, let them face the full force of the law beyond impotent finger-pointing. Ditto national government mandarins who have aided and abetted a grave injustice. The scary thing is that this is not an isolated incident. *** Education minister Fred Matiang’i has justly earned plaudits after presiding over national primary and secondary school examinations that, for the first time in decades, seem free of endemic cheating. However, there must be something wrong when the entire nation goes gaga over a person who simply does the job he was hired to do. That is because we have become so used to institutionalised mediocrity. gaithomail@gmail.com; Twitter: @MachariaGaitho  