Six cabinet secretaries were among a host of public figures honoured by President Uhuru Kenyatta during Jamhuri Day celebrations held at Nyayo National Stadium in Nairobi on Monday. Youth and Gender Affairs Cabinet Secretary Sicily Kariuki, her ICT counterpart Joseph Mucheru and Mining CS Daniel Kazungu received the Second Class, Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart (EGH) of Kenya in recognition of their distinguished and outstanding services rendered to the country. They were also joined in the list by Devolution CS Mwangi Kiunjuri, Charles Keter (Energy) and Agriculture CS Willy Bett in receiving the award which is only second to the Chief of the Golden Hearts medal among state commendations in the country. The six Cabinet Secretaries were among 10 other CSs who were recognised during the same celebrations in 2015. Chief Justice David Maraga honoured with an EGH medal bringing the total number of those who received this prestigious honour to seven during this year’s celebrations. Chairperson of the Public Service Commission Prof Margaret Kobia and LT Gen Robert Kibochi received the Moran of the Order of the Golden Heart (MGH). Fifty-one personalities ranging from Senators, Members of Parliament, Principal Secretaries, military Generals, brigadiers and state officials were conferred the First Class: Chief of the Order of the Burning Spear (CBS). Senators Bonny Khalwale, Hassan Ali, Daniel Karaba and Janet Ongera (Nominated) together with Members of Parliaments who included Moses Cheboi, John Mbadi, David Pkosing, Benjamin Washiali, Dr Ali Ibrahim, Thomas Mwadeghu and Isaac Mwaura (Nominated) were feted. Principal Secretaries Charles Sunkuli, Joseph Okudo, Powon Micah, Julius Korir, Dr Chris Kiptoo, Saitoti Torome, Sammy Itemere, Eng Victor Kyalo, Dr Dinah Jerotich, Betty Maina, Susan Wekesa, Fatuma Hirsi, Nancy Karigithu and Wilson Irungu Nyakera were also honoured. Maj. Generals Joseph Mwai, Benjamin Biwott, Michael Mulwa, Charles Gituai, Andrew Ikenye and Koipaton Walter were also awarded together with Deputy Inspector General (DIG) Samwel Arachi and his counterpart Joel Kitili Mboya. Deputy Chief of Staff at State House Waita Siwadie Nzioka, Chief of Staff in the office of the Deputy President Ken Nyauncho and Amb Peter Kaberia also made the list. Archbishop Aidah Munano, Prof Paul Mwangi, Patrick Nduati, Andrew Kamau, Dr Andrew Tuimur, Lillian Mbogo-Omollo, Zainab Wanjiru, Kihara Kennedy, Grace Otieno Abonyo, Halakhe Waqo, Muteshi Alezander, Otieno Samuel Ooko, Amadi Anne and Agnes Odhiambo were also on the list. Brigadiers Kang’ethe Charles Mwangi and Mwangi Jonah Maina together with Senior Assistant of Inspector General (SAIG) Kanampiu Julius Kibaara received Second Class, Elder of the Order of the Burning Spear (EBS).  