US President-elect Donald Trump has once again managed to turn facts on their head. He has renewed his accusation that China manipulates its currency in order to gain an advantage for its exports. On the contrary, for the past two-and-a-half years, the People’s Bank of China has been intervening in currency markets to prevent the renminbi’s value from falling too sharply against the dollar. China has lately faced a surge in capital outflows, which has created substantial pressure on the renminbi’s exchange rate. Those outflows are partly a result of the Chinese Government’s easing of capital-account restrictions. The outflows also reflect concerns about China’s economic prospects, including mounting financial risks, as well as fears among wealthy Chinese that they may be targeted by President Xi Jinping’s anti-corruption drive. Rather than allow the renminbi’s value to decline as fast as markets would dictate, the bank has stepped in to limit capital outflows and offset depreciation pressure. And China has incurred substantial costs: the bank’s efforts to keep the value of the renminbi relatively stable against the dollar has contributed to a nearly $900 billion decline in China’s foreign exchange reserves from its June 2014 peak of about $4 trillion. HARD TASKThe US benefits from China’s approach. Indeed, if Mr Trump demanded, as his predecessors have, that China allow markets to dictate its currency’s value, the renminbi would depreciate even faster, boosting China’s trade competitiveness vis-à-vis the US. In demanding that China stop the renminbi’s market-driven depreciation, however, Mr Trump is effectively calling on the country to do exactly what the US has always condemned: intervene directly in currency markets. Those are the facts. But Mr Trump does not deal in facts. And now that he is no longer just a presidential candidate, his accusations can no longer be dismissed as bluster. With Mr Trump in the White House, what was once viewed in the US as the “nuclear” option — officially charging China with currency manipulation and imposing high across-the-board tariffs on Chinese imports — has become a strong possibility. Mr Trump knows that fulfilling his promise to revive US manufacturing with domestic policy changes that boost American companies’ international competitiveness would be difficult to implement and take a long time to pay off. To him, “getting tough” on China probably seems like a convenient workaround. HURTING ECONOMY But far from advancing his goals, such moves would probably elicit an immediate and aggressive Chinese counterstrike. The likely result would be a downward spiral of retaliatory restrictions on bilateral trade and investment flows, which would hurt both economies. A charitable interpretation is that, as a pragmatic businessman, Mr Trump is simply using threats to stake out a strong bargaining position, and that sense and reason will ultimately prevail. Even the prospect of a trade war with China could be enough to damage the US economy. Already, Mr Trump’s post-election policy pronouncements have pushed up the dollar’s value. While the threat of a trade war with China and the notion of the US abrogating trade deals hurts other countries’ short-term growth prospects more than those of the US, a rising dollar is bad news for Mr Trump. His promises to increase US exports and bring back manufacturing jobs from countries with cheaper labour would be difficult to fulfil in the best of times. With a stronger dollar undermining US manufacturing’s international competitiveness, it would be even more difficult, at least in the short run. Mr Trump may try to spin these failures, especially as the capital inflows that are helping to push up the dollar’s value lower the federal government’s financing costs, thereby creating more room to pursue his fiscal policy goals. But the fact remains that if his heated protectionist rhetoric continues, the US will face a strong dollar, severely weakened exporters, and a much larger trade deficit — not to mention heightened tensions with a formidable China. Talking tough may play well at victory rallies, but it does not change the facts. If Mr Trump continues down his current path, the US economy will suffer — and so will his standing among the American voters who still, for whatever reason, believe in him. The writer is a professor at the Dyson School of Applied Economics and Management, Cornell University, and a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution. He is the author of Gaining Currency: The Rise of the Renminbi. Copyright: Project Syndicate, 2016  