The insistence by the Coalition for Reforms and Democracy that next year’s General Election be based entirely on technology is such a no-brainer that it has to be about anything but a successful outcome. Jubilee Party is convinced that Cord is out to reprise the Grand Coalition arrangement borne out of the post-election violence of 2007, the last time an incumbent president, Mwai Kibaki, sought re-election. The perils of BVR verification are legion and in a volatile political environment and context such as Kenya’s (the 2007-08 post-election violence still weighs heavily on the mind) every precaution should be in place. Writing in the Mail & Guardian newspaper of South Africa in an article headlined “Dirty hands: Why biometric voting fails in Africa - and it doesn’t matter in the end” on March 30, 2015, Christine Mungai noted that more than two-dozen African countries had tried a biometric or electronic component in their voting systems — and failed spectacularly. She went on: “What’s particularly illuminating is that more mature democracies are moving away from electronic voting systems, mainly because of their vulnerability to glitches, and their opacity — the inability to conclusively verify that electronic votes or the software on machines have not been manipulated. “The broader, systemic problem, however, is that in much of Africa, the whole political system is perceived as a winner-takes-all route to quick riches, hence the viciously cutthroat nature of elections.” There simply has to be manual backup and the pretence that it is devoted to rigging is utter claptrap. Take, for instance, the recent General Election in Ghana, where the incumbent, President John Dramani Mahama, actually lost. The poll was prefaced with the following remarks of the Greater Accra Regional Director of the Electoral Commission, Mr Kwame Amoah, who non-controversially announced there would be both manual and machine verification of voters: “This means if a person gets disqualified by means of the verification machine, the voter would have the alternate option of manual verification. Your fingerprint could get distorted because of a scar or some other similar interruption.” Crucially, he noted: “A person’s finger print could easily be distorted for a legitimate reason, and that should not mean a legitimate voter should be disqualified.” The point is clear and absolutely non-controversial – no qualified voter should ever be denied his or her right to vote. Therefore, when Cord cites the case of the use of BVR in Ghana they should be honest to add that there was hard-copy paper trail back up complete with photos. Indeed in some two Ghanaian constituencies during that election, the process of voting had to be repeated in entirety. It is such glitches that we are duty-bound to plan for or better yet, forestall. When you buy a brand new car with all new tyres, you invariably get a spare wheel but not because you will as a matter of course suffer a puncture. This is done simply because it is good, and in fact, commonsense. Electronic fingerprint readers are notorious for their propensity to malfunction and fail. In the Nigerian presidential poll that he lost, President Goodluck Jonathan suffered the electronic ignominy of the fingerprint reader failing to clear him to vote for 50-odd minutes. Can you imagine live TV showing candidate Raila Odinga or Kalonzo Musyoka delayed for half an hour courtesy of BVR malfunction? In 2012 and 2013 biometric kits in both the Ghanaian and the Kenyan elections failed. The Opposition in each country went to court but the judiciaries upheld the manually tabulated results. The forces that are so noisily and implacably pushing for an entirely BVR-mediated General Election in Kenya are setting the democratic process up for failure. Mr Tuju is the Head of Jubilee Secretariat  