Who can resist making resolutions at this time of year? Mostly we try to make big changes - and quickly give up! So how about making some tiny changes? Resolutions that will definitely change your life? Like leaving in plenty of time so you can travel relaxed, knowing you’re not going to be late. Now you can enjoy the journey, and resist doing crazy things in the traffic. Life’s much less stressful if you only allow enough time. And while you’re at it, just let the other guy go first. Instead of pushing onto lifts or trying to overtake aggressively in traffic, just wait your turn. Because life isn’t really a combat zone. So rethink your approach: think of giving way to others as an act of kindness, and let the racers get out of your way. Just try it for a few days, and you’ll see how much more relaxed you feel, once you stop fighting every inch of the way. In fact, why not be kinder in everything you do? Hold doors for people without expecting any thanks. Surprise your mother with a phone call. You get the idea. Be mindful when you eat your meals. Try to eat with other people as often as possible. And stop multi-tasking. Don’t text. Don’t take calls, Don’t have lunch at your desk. Just sit and eat - at a table - even if you’re alone. Eat healthy, or eat junk - but always be conscious of the simple pleasures of what you’re eating. TV and the internet portray an unreal world where everyone seems better looking, fitter, more intelligent and successful. Making you feel bad. So limit your exposure. Instead, focus on something creative: writing, making music, maybe learn to draw… …and read. Read for at least an hour a day. Non-fiction for your education. But also some fiction. Because the best novels can give you an insight into the most powerful truths of life. Spend a few moments every day just being thankful for being alive. Enjoy the sunshine. Listen to the rain. It’s all too easy to spend an entire day being negative… …so instead, try to interpret all of life’s grey areas positively. Like the couple laughing at the bar and looking in your direction - why are they sniggering at you? Your crush who didn’t text all day - is it all over already? It’s easy to beat yourself up and assume the worst about everyone around you. Try interpreting things positively instead: that couple were simply having a good time, and your crush is busy just like everyone else. Modern society tells us that more is always better: money, possessions, status and success. Don’t get sucked in. Instead of focusing on what you’re missing, look at what you already have. Live a simpler life and build your savings. Because possessions don’t bring long-term happiness. Instead value simple experiences and concentrate on the moment. And then you can finally start living.  nyumbayangu@me.com  