What is the first thing you do when you and your man are going through a rough patch? Do you call that friend who is like a sister to you? If you do, findings of a new study suggest that while going to that one person who has known you the longest may seem like the most logical thing to do, it is the absolute wrong move. Apparently, sharing your relationship problems with your female friends will only lead to the break-up of that relationship. Women who go to their friends with their relationship problems and not their partners are in fact three times more likely to break up with their partners. WOMEN PROBLEMS For the study, researchers from the East Carolina University in the US studied 67 women in their twenties over a two-year period. The women were asked questions about their romantic relationships: The friction that they had with their partners and who between their female best friend and their partners they chose to confide in when problems in their relationships arose. Women, it was observed, are more likely to share their relationship problems with people in their social networks. The researchers found that while confiding in a friend increased the chances of a break-up by 33 per cent, choosing to confide in your partner doubles the chances that you’ll stay together. The researchers found that the reason that girlfriends are more likely to hinder than help a relationship is jealousy which is especially common in female friendships. Also, women who are dissatisfied in their own relationships are more likely to project this on other peoples’ relationships making such a woman the worst choice of confidante. Also, misery loves company. A woman who is unhappy in her relationship may lead you to make the relationship choices which will lead you to sharing her misery. On the flip side, frequent relationship work with your partner in a relationship was linked to relationship stability. The researchers observed that this could be because before a couple can even begin to tackle their relationship problems, they should be able to communicate openly about them. The next time you are feeling dissatisfied with your relationship, the person you should be running to is your partner as this will benefit the relationship immediately and in the long-term.  