The dead are resting in pieces and in raw sewage at Lang’ata Cemetery, Nairobi, after a contractor ripped up graves and drenched them with human waste. The contractor has cut a trench to emit the waste right from Royal Park Estate, along the edge of 150-acre graveyard, exposing coffins and their contents. More than 100 graves are affected and the Nation’s efforts to unmask the contractor have not borne fruit. RAW SEWAGE Royal Park Estate caretaker Eric Oketch on Thursday said the trench was dug last week without the knowledge of the residents. “I left on Wednesday last week for a funeral and on my way back I found a big trench dug to divert rain water. I did not know it was the sewage,” he said, adding that estate has underground sewer pipes and does not know where the septic tank is located. Nairobi City County is now planning to sue the contractor. The Evans Kidero leadership on Thursday said it had launched investigations into the case that has brought to the fore the untold suffering on the dead at one of the biggest cemeteries in East Africa.   County Health Executive Bernard Muia said they suspect the estate’s sewers had blocked and its owner chose to please the tenants by offending the dead. “We suspect that they have blocked sewer and they can’t flush toilets but we have launched investigation,” he said. Dr Muia came face to face with the pain of the dead when he visited the cemetery on Wednesday accompanied by Mugumo-Ini MCA Alex Otieno, Nairobi Water and Sewerage company officials and public health workers. This was after residents of Lang’ata reported the matter to the leadership of the city county.   Dr Muia said they found exposed coffins, and described the contractor’s actions as “disrespect to the dead and their families”. “I will not allow anyone disturb the dead. Let them rest in peace,” he said. When the Nation team visited the cemetery on Thursday, it found casual workers filling  up the trench. “We were at our base when we were called for this job. We are trying to fill (the trench) but people are coming and asking us questions. We are worried that we might land in trouble,” said one of the casuals who refused to be named. County and public health officials, he said, visited the scene on Thursday morning and sought to know who had assigned them.   They refused to reveal the name of their employer. Dr Muia said they had asked Nairobi Water and Sewerage Company to fill up the trench and investigate why the estate lacks functioning sewer lines. On the affected site, one cannot tell where the border between the cemetery and the expanding residential estate lies. More houses are coming up a few metres from the cemetery and there are fears some of the graveyard land has been grabbed. The raw sewage menace has exposed the grave matter that is Lang’ata cemetery.   The dead lie rib by rib at the overflowing graveyard and burying a loved one has become an intrusive affair— that of disturbing the peace of the other departed souls. There are no walkways and you are likely to stumble upon epitaphs when walking on Lang’ata’s narrow, invisible footpaths. A ledger at the cemetery shows it was first opened in late 1950s, with Robert Lockead being the first one to be interred. His is among the few records kept on the individuals buried there. The burial of millions of ordinary Kenyans are not recorded and the lists of who-is-who resting there are incoherent.   The Nation'sinvestigations in 2014 revealed that one grave holds up to three bodies. During Lockead’s era, the investigations revealed, graves were dug 10 feet deep. When the cemetery started getting full in early 1990s, the first-generation graves were recycled and new ones were dug six feet deep. When the cemetery started overflowing in 1996, the graves with two bodies were re-recycled, with tombs being dug three feet deep. To date, the county government is yet to acquire land for a new cemetery as the city's burial crisis deepens.   Previous attempts to buy land in Mavoko, Machakos County, became a scandal after more than Sh240 million was used to buy a rocky patch of earth that was unsuitable for burials. Since the cemetery is unfenced, wild animals have been roaming the graveyard and feasting on bodies. Mr Otieno said  its fencing was impossible after a contractor, allegedly paid Sh40 million by defunct Nairobi City Council, left it undone. A new contractor was engaged at Sh28 million by the County Government but was never paid.  Additional reporting by Harry Misiko.  