Kenya on Sunday got off to a flying start in East Africa Community Parliamentary Games, winning gold medal in 400 metres and 800m walk race at Mbaraki Sports Club, Mombasa. Cherangany Member of Parliament Wesley Korir won gold medals for Kenya in men’s 800m walk race and returned to win the 400m race. The former Boston Marathon champion was never troubled as he finished the 800m walk race well ahead of the opposition. Kenya’s John Waiganjo and Andrew Kalula from Uganda finished second and third respectively in men’s walk race. “This is even more difficult than running. You can see that legislators are socialising well and striking important conversations while at it. That is what this event is about and once again we have seen how powerful sports is,” Korir said. Kenya wound up third in women’s category of the two-lap walk race. Uganda’s Binti Jordan won in the category, followed by Judith Akello. Homa Bay Woman Representative Gladys Wanga and Elgeyo-Marakwet Woman Representative Susan Chebet finished third and fifth respectively in 400m race as Uganda ran away winners in the category. In tug of war, Kenya lost 2-0 to Uganda to relinquish the title they won last year in Rwanda. Funyula MP Paul Otuoma, Lunga Lunga MP Khatib Mwashetani and Senior Serjeant-At-Arms at Kenya National Assembly Josphat Bundotich were in the Kenyan team that lost to Uganda. Sunday's games were preceded by a pre-tournament conference held at the Mombasa Technical Training Institute where legislators familiarised themselves with each other and with rules of engagement during the tournament. More excitement is anticipated on Monday at the Makande Gymnasium where Volleyball and Netball games will begin, and at Mbaraki where Kenya will begin the difficult chase for the elusive football title. The East Africa Community Parliamentary Games is an annual event held on rotational basis among East Africa Community member states. The event was first held in 2009 in Tanzania. The six participating countries are hosts Kenya, Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi, South Sudan and Rwanda. Participants will engage in any or all of the seven disciplines available: Football, volleyball, athletics, netball, boxing, golf and tug of War. MONDAY'S PROGRAMME Netball: (At KPA Makande Gymnasium) 9am: Uganda v Kenya 10am: EALA v Burundi Men’s volleyball: (At KPA Makande Gymnasium) 11am: Tanzania v Uganda 12pm: Burundi v Rwanda Women’s volleyball: (At KPA Makande Gymnasium) 2pm: Uganda v Kenya 3pm: Burundi v EALA Football: (At Mbaraki Sports Club) 3pm: Uganda v Kenya 4.30pm: EALA v Burundi  