The different positions taken by Jubilee and Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord) on the Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016 has deepened the controversies surrounding its implementation. The Jubilee Party has filed a response in court supporting two petitions which wants the law nullified on claims that it has provisions which infringe on the voters’ constitutional rights to vote, by recognising only the biometric voter identification and electronic transmission of results. Cord on the other hand, has said that the contested law is a product of painstaking politically negotiated process, resulting from a protracted struggle to reform the electoral infrastructure in Kenya adding that, any amendments to it must follow the same process which led to its formation and eventual enactment. Lawyer Apollo Mboya for Cord has in court papers stated that with the elections scheduled for August 8, next year, there is no time for another political process. “The Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016 is anchored on the sacrifices made by patriotic Kenyans through public demonstrations so that Kenya can realise an election that is simple, accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent,” lawyer Mboya said. He argues that the petitions filed by Mugambi Imanyara and Collins Kipchumba Tallam, challenging the Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016 are inviting the courts to cause turbulence in the electoral process after the commencement of the elections preparation by the electoral body. He said the principal objective of the amendments was to address concerns on matters relating to the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission (IEBC) and the conduct of elections. Also to ensure an audit of the register of voters and its verification for accuracy, the appointment of new electoral body Commissioners and the committee to oversee the acquisition of technology to be used in the elections. The Jubilee Party through Secretary General Veronica Maina has however said that the amendments which were made to the electoral laws have the real and present danger of delaying, disrupting and undermining the electoral process. The ruling party has pointed out that IEBC Chief Executive Officer has confirmed the fact that 10 per cent of the country has no network coverage at all and that only 17 per cent of the country has 3G network coverage. “It is very likely voters in areas with no network coverage could be disenfranchised by the mandatory requirement of electronic voter transmission of votes,” said Ms Maina in court papers. She said that to ensure that the constitutionally required threshold of an accurate, verifiable, secure, accountable and transparent process is met, there should be manual process as a back-up in case there is failure in the electronic transmission of results. Ms Maina added that from the experience of the 2013 general elections in Kenya and in other countries including Ghana, the US and Brazil, it is almost certain that the requirements introduced by the amendments could disenfranchise registered voters. “Any statute should not become an instrument of voter suppression. Our electoral laws and systems should not undermine the right to be registered as a voter, exercise the right to vote and have your vote count,” she said. She said the amendments to the election laws should be scrutinised for their conformity with the constitution and if found likely to violate any section of the constitution, to be declared void to the extent of such inconsistency. Most of the political parties affiliated to the opposition had early this year held massive countrywide demonstrations to push for reforms of IEBC and also have its Commissioners removed from office. Peace was restored when Cord and Jubilee party undertook to enact legislation to establish a mechanism for the removal of the IEBC Commissioners and to make institutional and legal reforms of the electoral body. The products of that engagement were the Election Offences Act, 2016 and the Election Laws (Amendment) Act, 2016. The case will be heard on December 20.  