MAKING RICE HUSKS MANUREI need your advice on how I can turn a tonne of rice husks into manure for my farm. I have access to a lot of husks even after rice bran has been sifted. Omedo Olupot Rice husks are a great source of carbon for the plants. However, you will need to let them decompose for the carbon to be available. Following is how you make compost manure from the husks. For this method, it is most suitable during the dry season. You will need to select a site, which is relatively flat and shaded (away from direct sunlight) preferably under a tree. Set tree branches or maize stalks on the ground horizontally. Then place a layer of the husks, if you have other agricultural wastes you can place them in layers. The heap should not be too high probably up to a height of 3ft to allow turning. On top you can pour some water and Effective Micro-organisms for faster decomposition. The heap should be turned every 3-4 days as water is poured to reduce the heat within the heap. However, caution should be taken to avoid soaking the heap. You will need to cover the heap to avoid loss of nutrients. The compost should be ready in 4-8 weeks. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** GROWING GRAM BEANS Where can I get gram bean seeds for planting? I have searched in many places without success. Any contacts please?Anthony Gram bean is commonly known as chick pea in Kenya. The crop is widely grown in the country and thus many agrovets stock the seed. Kindly visit the seed stockiest near you, or get in touch with Egerton University Seed Unit. Sylvans Ochola, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University. **** FARM MANAGER I have a farm in Ngong with a few dairy cows, goats, sheep and Kienyeji chickens. I also grow small-scale vegetables as I have access to water. I am looking for a qualified farm manger since I’m currently in full-time employment. With good management, I’m confident I can get better my yields. Jayne Njuguna The fact that you want to hire a manager proves your desire to go professional and to turn around the farm. Egerton University trains farm managers with hands on experience and with agri-enterprise development skills. Upon request, we can help you source for a farm manager with whatever qualifications you need.     For all whom we have assisted before, our focus has been on the farm manager’s ability to lay out plans for the farm, ability to lead other employees, result-oriented farm managers and those with hands-on, practical experience. This farm manager must also show their ability to be innovative at work and must have an entrepreneur’s mind-set to be able to turn your farm around. We can help you source for a farm manager, for details kindly send me an email on dickson@agfreshsupplies.com for action. Dickson Otieno, Department of Agricultural Economics and Agribusiness Management, Egerton University. **** CAGE FISH FARMING TIPS I am Joseph and I would like to have information on catfish and tilapia farming in cages. My questions are: a) Where can I get the cages? b) How can I make fish feeds? c) Supply any contacts of people keeping fish in cages. Cage farming is one of the technologies being adopted in aquaculture to boost production. It allows high stocking densities per metre square calling for intensive management of the system. The system utilises the vast water resources including oceans, lakes, rivers, dams and big ponds. Monoculture of tilapia and catfish is possible and cages can be stocked with up to 200 fish per metre square. Silver Sky Business Solutions Limited is a company of young innovators based in Bondo, which deals with fabrication and installation of fish cages. Currently it has supplied cages to three county governments namely Siaya, Kisumu and Bondo, which are utilising Lake Victoria water for cage production. You can contact them on 0725553251. In aquaculture, feeds are the most expensive accounting for up to 50-60 per cent of the production costs.     Both commercial and local feeds are available in the market. However, they are expensive for most farmers. Commercial diets, for instance, are imported hence high prices. Over the counter formulated feeds, on the other hand, might not be able to meet the protein requirement due to adulteration by inclusion of low level of proteins which is common with most vendors. On farm formulation of feeds is the only way to go, with feeds containing 30-35 per cent of crude protein can be formulated for tilapia production while 40 per cent for catfish. You will be weighing your ingredients and use the Pearson square method in formulation. For more information, call me on 0716921364 or write to akidivaaquafish@gmail.com. Alex Akidiva, Department of Biological Sciences, Egerton University. **** CONTROLLING WEEDS IN FODDER GRASS My name is Mohammed Magut from Nandi County. I am a smallholder dairy farmer and would wish to establish Boma Rhodes pasture for my dairy enterprise. However, I have challenges with weeds that have invaded my farm where I want to plant the fodder. Please advise. You can control the weeds with a selective herbicide such as Servian 75 WG (Syngenta) used with a complement. Clear the broad leaf weeds with Roundup (Bayer) or Touchdown (Syngenta) before establishing the Boma grass. Sylvans Ochola, Department of Crops, Horticulture & Soils, Egerton University. **** SWEET POTATO AS ANIMAL FEEDS Is there any risk if I was grind sweet potatoes for use as goat feeds? For instance, with maize, I can get aflatoxin. Further, if I am to mix the sweet potatoes with maize germ, what value will I achieve? Kenneth Omusebe Sweet potatoes are highly palatable and capable of serving as primary digestible energy source in animal diets. In fact, in some areas, they are often readily available at relatively low cost vis a vis equivalent nutrient sources. However, their use is much limited due to the many precautions one should take when using as animal feed. To safely feed them, they should be availed in moderation, especially if giving the roots that have approximately 80 per cent moisture. This can be accompanied by dry grass hay for increased dry matter. Note that sweet potatoes, especially when pounded, are not good source of fibre for livestock. Therefore, ensure you offer them together with roughage. Maize germ has fibre, therefore, it can be mixed with grinded sweet potato but they are all primarily energy sources for your livestock.     Introduce your animals gradually to sweet potato diet as it is high in readily fermentable starch, which will help minimise the risk of digestive disturbances such as acidosis. The potatoes are better utilised by mature animals than young ones. However, sweet potatoes are largely toxin free but avoid feeding animals rotten, molded, sprouted, or frozen sweet potatoes even when pounded. Molded sweet potatoes may contain mycotoxins that can be fatal to livestock. These mycotoxins may be present even when mold damage is not visible. Sprouted or sunburned sweet potatoes can contain toxic substance known as glycoalkaloids, which increases when the sprouts or peelings are exposed to light in warm or moist conditions. Frozen sweet potatoes, on the other hand, should not be fed due to choking risk. Animal diets high in sweet potato content must be supplemented with protein, fibre, minerals, and vitamins. Felix Akatch Opinya, Department of Animal Sciences, Egerton University. **** MACADAMIA MARKET I have two bags of macadamia nuts to sell. Where can I get good market? I live in Kiambu County.Farmer You can sell the nuts directly in the market or to industries such Kenya Nut Company. Alternatively, please send your details to the buyers and sellers column. Muriuki Ruth Wangari, Department of Crops, Horticulture and Soils, Egerton University.   For questions or enquiries on agribusiness, marketing, logistics, processing, innovation, and technology? Send your questions to: satnation@ke.nationmedia.com