The close relationship between senior managers of Imperial Bank and Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) officials, was too intimate to allow proper regulation of the bank, shareholders of the bank have claimed. The shareholders, have stated that they have since established that there were improper exchange of favours where the bank’s senior managers and CBK officials assisted each other to secure jobs for their friends, a situation which according to the shareholders, was not appropriate between a bank and a regulator. “It is obvious that the bank managers and those from CBK did not conduct their relationship in the arms-length and straightforward way appropriate and expected between a regulator and a business it supervises and regulates by virtue of the law,” Imperial bank shareholders said in the court papers. The shareholders have filed their latest response to an application by the Kenya Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) and CBK which have sought to freeze their assets to recover Sh45 billion loss which is said to have led to the bank’s collapse. Mr Anwar Hajee, a director in one of the shareholding companies, said in court papers that CBK officials had prior information about the unhealthy status of the bank’s books but had over the years, colluded with the former Group Managing Director Abdulmalek Janmohamed, and other senior officers of the bank, to provide entirely false financial data together with regulatory reports which CBK deliberately doctored. “This was done in order to ensure that the shareholders and the non-executive directors would remain in the dark about the fraud,” Mr Hajee said. Instead, the regulator remained complacent in the fraud as a number of individuals at CBK benefited from loans made by the bank. There were instances of generous tolerance on late payment and irregular promises of credit that were granted to individuals at CBK. An official from CBK had, in an email sent to one of the senior managers at Imperial Bank, claimed that he had been assured by Mr Janmohamed sometimes in 2004, that his children will never lack school fees as long as the bank was in operation. Mr Janmohamed also had a close relationship with former CBK governor Njuguna Ndung'u to a point where he had even sought to assist Lime Technologies, to sell a fraud prevention software to CBK. “It is deeply troubling that the Governor of CBK should allow, the Managing Director of one of the financial institutions regulated by CBK, to be so intimately involved in the procurement of CBK’s anti-fraud system,” Mr Hajee said. The shareholders said the fact that, at the same time, officers of CBK were fully aware of the fact that Mr Janmohamed was himself actively engaged in a systematic fraud and embezzlement on a massive scale, and were actively colluding with him to suppress it, “underlines the risks caused by such inappropriate relationships of influence.” The shareholders want the court to stop the planned liquidation of the bank by KDIC and CBK, and instead allow restricting to commence.  