The government Friday launched the construction of the first ever cruise ship terminal at the port of Mombasa. Tourism Cabinet Secretary Najib Balala said the construction of the terminal would cost Sh350 million with a Sh250 million funding from Kenya Ports Authority and Sh100 million from TradeMark East Africa. He said the project involves the modernisation of an old building at the port’s berth number 1 to be a world class cruise terminal. Speaking at the port of Mombasa, when he officially launched the construction of terminal Friday, Mr Balala said the project is expected to be completed in July next year and ready for use when the next cruise tourism season begins September 2017. “The availability of a cruise terminal at the port of Mombasa will be a game changer to tourism industry as it will help attract more international tourists to the country,” he said. Mr Balala said the facility would offer services to tourists when they arrive at the port or when departing for other destinations. “Over the years, there has been no terminal at the port to cater for tourists who arrive by sea. But I am glad that by July next we shall have a modern cruise ship facility,” he added. Mr Balala said he was impressed that cruise tourism was on recovery with two cruise ships having arrived this month alone with more than 1,000 tourists and crew. He said tourists, who arrive in the country by sea had boosted the tourism industry and the economy since they visit national parks and excursions on Mombasa town. The CS directed new Kenya Tourism Board chief executive Betty Radier to give cruise tourism marketing a priority to woo more tourists. Mr Balala said the government will February next year host 3,000 travel agents from the US for them to familiarize with the local tourism products. He said tourism in the country grew by 16 per cent between January and October this year. In the period, he said, the US market took top position in terms of tourist arrivals to the country while the United Kingdom and India were second and third respectively. During the period under review, he added, 55,000 tourists from India visited the country while 45,000 Ugandans arrived, registering a growth of 85 per cent compared with the same period last year. He noted that the country would also participate in a cruise tourism convention to take place in Miami, USA, next year to attract more cruise liners to bring tourists to the country. Mombasa Governor Hassan Joho said his county government fully supports the cruise ship terminal project. “Tourism is the economic driver of Mombasa and as well help create jobs for our youth. I therefore support the development of tourist facilities,” he said. KPA managing director Catherine Mturi-Wairi, said last season, the port received 10 cruise ships which brought in more than 6,000 tourists. “This season, we have so far received two vessels and more are expected to bring holidaymakers between this month and March next year,” she added. The KPA boss said a survey which was carried out in 2015 by Tourism and Transport Consult International on cruise tourist potential for Kenya showed that Mombasa could easily attract 140,000 passengers per year.  