Next April, 31-year-old Njambi will be walking down the aisle to say “I do” to the love of her life. Njambi, who works for an insurance firm in Nairobi, is a renewed virgin. A little over a year ago, when her boyfriend proposed marriage, she decided not to have sex again until after marriage. “I want to make my wedding day special. We want to do this the right way,” she explains her decision to abstain from sex. The right way – Njambi repeats this phrase several times during our interview suggesting that she is partly driven by societal expectations. She lost her virginity at 20. During the first two years of her relationship with her fiancé she was sexually intimate with him. At the time, she says, she thought that sexual intimacy was an expression of love and a normal part of a dating relationship and she didn’t think much about chastity. “I was wrong. My fiancé and I, now know that we deviated from the correct path and gave away parts of ourselves that should be shared only in marriage. I saw our engagement period as a chance to right this wrong, to finally do it the right way … he agrees with me,” she says. The Merriam-Webster dictionary describes a virgin as an absolutely chaste young woman or a person who has not had sexual intercourse. For Njambi though, virginity is not just physical. She believes that it also entails spiritual and emotional purity. This is why she believes that it can be renewed. “It is like an emotional detox. I am cleaning out my emotional baggage in preparation for the marriage commitment that I am about to make,” she says. Seeing as she and her fiancé have been sexually intimate in the past, Njambi admits that keeping this commitment hasn’t been easy. “We still want to spend as much time together as we did before we made this commitment but we have had to change a lot of things in our relationship. We can’t sleep in the same bed or shower together like before. We also avoid drinking alcohol alone together,” she explains how they are staying committed to their decision. THE CHALLENGE ON SECONDARY VIRGINITY For 33-year-old Jerioth Wandia, the greater challenge on her secondary virginity quest comes from without, not within. “A lot of people I have revealed this little fact to think that I am a bitter man-hater or that I have warped view of sexuality. A friend even asked me once whether I am celibate because I think that my sexuality is an asset that depreciates the more I have sex,” she shares. Jerioth, a small business owner, has been celibate for one year and three months now. Her motivation is a strong desire to re-write her past. “I have been around quite a bit.  I was in a series of relationships that were leading nowhere, I dated a lot of people that I shouldn’t have and in doing so I hurt a lot of people. I wanted to change this so I decided to just quit everything. To give myself a fresh start. I made a lot of mistakes, and this is a chance to re-write my past. I am now saving myself for the one,” she explains her motivation. “There is a lot of misinformation on what secondary virginity is. It isn’t about being single or being on a dry spell. It is about making a conscious decision to abstain from all forms of sexual intimacy. It has to be a conscious decision, not a situation brought about by circumstances,” she explains. A LIFESTYLE CHANGE Total abstinence for Jerioth means that in addition to the physical abstinence, she abstains from self-pleasure and from thinking about sex. She also doesn’t flirt and is keen not to dress in a sexually suggestive manner. She also stays away from people, places or events that might tempt her. This journey is a lifestyle change for her. Though sexual intimacy today is a speedy, casual affair, society still places a huge value on a woman’s virginity just as it did two or three generations ago. A woman who is able to resist the temptations that litter the dating scene is admired. One would then imagine that a woman on a sexual abstinence journey would have men flocking around her trying to date her. “This couldn’t be further from the truth,” Jerioth shares. “The one thing I have learnt these past fifteen months is that sex and physical intimacy is a big part of romantic relationships today. Most of the prospective partners I have met are very clear about wanting to date a woman who is sexually active. One even asked me why I was behaving as if my lady parts were diamonds.” Does she feel like she is missing out on anything? “Absolutely not, I’ve been there, done that.  I go out, I have fun and I date without having to worry about all those things leading up to sex in a relationship. In a way, not having to think about that is liberating and I can get to really know the people I date without physical intimacy getting in the way.” The one perk, she says, is that prospective partners who are just interested in the physical aspect of a relationship do not stick around for long. This way, she observes, there is no time lost trying to figure out whether a man is after her heart or just after a good time. Just like Njambi, Jerioth believes that following her decision to abstain, her wedding night will be magical, that it will be a brand new experience to her brand new self. “The only thing I haven’t quite figured out is whether I can just say ‘yes’ when asked by a potential mate whether I am a virgin without having to go into the details,” she chuckles. SURGICAL OPTIONS While these women insist that virginity to them is more mental and spiritual than it is physical, whether for social or religious reasons, there are women who seek to physically renew their virginity. For this lot, there are surgical options that allow them to reclaim their physical virginity. According to Dr Francis Xavier Otieno Odawa, a gynaecologist/obstetrician who has a practice at the Kenyatta National Hospital Doctors’ Plaza, hymen restoration surgery is gaining popularity among Kenyan women. “The hymen is the traditional representation of virginity. Most of the women seeking this procedure are from those communities that value virginity before marriage. It is important that others believe that they are  virgins. Then there are those simply going into a new relationship who want to attempt to erase their past. A woman who has already has sex will have the surgery to feign virginity,” he says. This cosmetic procedure involves reconstruction of the hymen by sewing back together the unraveled parts or by using tissue from the vaginal walls. It can take anything from half an hour to 90 minutes to turn a woman with a past into a surgical virgin.   *** THE PRICE OF VIRGINITY In the olden days when virginity was cherished, women and their partners (and relatives) took pride in having an intact hymen with blood stains on the wedding night bed to prove that they were pure. Even today, women still remember when they lost their virginity as a special rite of passage. So highly prized is virginity in some quarters that some women auction it off to the highest bidder. In September, the Daily Mail, ran a story of one such woman, 20-year-old Ariana from Russia who wanted to sell her virginity to raise money for tuition. Bids reportedly started at £13, 000 (Sh16, 315, 875.35). In October, the Washington Post reported that 21-year-old Katherine Stone wanted to sell her virginity to raise money to buy her parents a home, after their family home burnt down. She reportedly got a bid for $400, 000 (Sh40, 985, 202.29).  Virginity facts and figures In the Kenya Demographic Health Survey of 2014, 15% of women aged 20 to 49 reported that their first sexual intercourse happened  by age 15. Fifty per cent had their first sex by age 18, while 71 per cent had had sex by age 20. The median age at first intercourse was age 18 for women and 17.4 years for men. The hymen is a thin membrane inside the vaginal opening that has a hole in it for menstrual blood and other secretions to pass through. Activities like biking and using tampons can cause the membrane to break. Not all women bleed during the first intercourse and bleeding might be an indication of inadequate lubrication or sex that is too rough, rather than the breaking of a hymen. A technical virgin is a woman who has not had vaginal sex, but has had other forms of sex like   Apparently, co-sleeping with your spouse can ruin not just your mood but also your looks and career.