When I say Happy New Year to you all, as I do on this first day of January, it is a rather forlorn wish, insofar as I hope you will all have a happy 2017, but I can do nothing about it if you don’t. New Year resolutions are only slightly different. They depend upon ourselves, on our determination and will power. Yet we know that by the end of January, most of these good intentions will be out of the window. I was discussing this with an old friend and we decided, OK, if it’s never going to happen, let us go the whole hog and imagine something truly, wonderfully outrageous. It was my age mate who thought of it: For the new year of 2017: Nation State Without Corruption! Please stop laughing! They once said man would never reach the moon, and now he is heading towards Mars. Let’s just see what would happen if corruption ended. All those crooked politicians will come out with the money they stole and say: “Here’s our loot, we’re very sorry, we won’t do it again.” COMPROMISING SITUATIONSThe government official in charge of contracts tells the bidders, “Keep your bribes, gentlemen, we don’t do that sort of thing any more.” And very soon the nation gets a beautiful new road which doesn’t turn into potholes five minutes later. Judges and magistrates tear up the brown envelopes slipped in their direction and guilty men start going to prison while the innocent rejoin their families. The national budget goes into surplus and the local currency soars against the dollar. The economy booms and there are jobs galore. Of course, there is a downside. You are late for work and a cop catches you speeding. Instead of a discreetly folded note changing hands, you receive an inconvenient summons to traffic court to answer charges. The 60 per cent pass mark at college can no longer be facilitated in the usual way, thus a resit or even an inconvenient rethink about a young person’s career is the result. The permit-issuing bureaucrat has a name that is common to your part of the country and you point this out to him eagerly. “So what!” he says, and directs you to the end of the queue. Of course, as I said, all this is wishful thinking, and as my old mum used to say, “If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.” FIX ROOMSA controversial plan to set up Britain’s first “fix rooms” in Glasgow, where drug addicts can inject safely under supervision, has been approved. The health board, city council and police agreed the initiative in principle, following on from similar schemes in at least 10 other countries, including Australia, France and Germany. The aim is to address problems caused by an estimated 500 users who inject on Glasgow’s streets. They are responsible for discarded needles which pose a health risk to children and they often contribute to public order problems. The fix rooms would allow addicts to consume their own drugs, although in some cases, users would be provided with medical-grade heroin.In approving the plan in principle, officials said such facilities should also offer “wrap around” services such as health care, counselling and advice on housing and welfare. ***One of the last and saddest events of 2016 was the death at age 86 of Lionel Blue, a Jewish rabbi who earned nationwide affection for his three-minute radio commentaries on the BBC’s Thought for the Day programme. His homilies were listened to eagerly because they always ended with a joke. Lionel Blue was the London-born son of a master tailor of Russian descent. A clever but conflicted young man, he gained an Oxford degree in history after abandoning an early interest in theology. While at university, he realised he was homosexual and this drove him to a nervous breakdown before he came to terms with his sexuality and found an enduring partner. BEING OPENHe later became attached to the idea of becoming an Anglican monk but rediscovered Judaism in 1950 and, after much agonising, decided to become a rabbi. Often distrusted by the Jewish establishment, Rabbi Blue liked meeting Christians and Muslims and went regularly to a retreat at a Roman Catholic monastery. He began openly discussing his sexuality with friends in the late 1960s and came out as gay in 1980, the first rabbi to do so. In his early seventies, he suffered a series of small heart attacks and epileptic seizures and had surgery for cancer. A BBC tribute said “Rabbi Blue’s combination of wit, humility and compassion appealed to and entertained those of all beliefs and none”. One of his last Thought for the Day jokes: “The Italian mother says, ‘Eat your spaghetti or I’ll kill you.’ The Jewish mother says, ‘Eat your chicken or I’ll kill myself.’” Gerryo69@hotmail.com  