I returned to the Kibaki government in the wake of the 2007 disputed presidential election results. I contested the election and came in third behind Kibaki and Raila, garnering 879,899 votes. Kibaki and Raila received 4,578,034 and 4,352,860 votes respectively, according to Electoral Commission of Kenya figures. ODM alleged the commission had doctored the results in Kibaki’s favour. After ECK chairman Samuel Kivuitu declared Kibaki the winner, violence broke out across the country as ODM supporters contested the validity of the results. Kibaki was hurriedly sworn in for a second term as president. The ceremony was conduct­ed by Chief Justice Evan Gicheru in the twilight of December 30, 2007. Vio­lence raged across the country, mostly in Nairobi, Rift Valley, Nyanza, Western and Coast. According to official figures, some 1,133 Kenyans were killed and as many as 600,000 uprooted from their homes in the chaos. The economic cost in terms of destroyed homes and business premises, the loss to the key tourism and manufacturing sectors and regional trade ran into billions of dollars. It was in the midst of this crisis that Kibaki announced my appointment as the 10th Vice-President, on January 8, 2008. But efforts by Kibaki and his allies to get me to his side had been going on for many months, even before the elections and I had rejected all of them. One evening just days to the election date, I was invited to dinner by Mr Narendra Raval Guru, the chairman of Devki Group of Companies. The group is one of Kenya’s biggest players in the construction in­dustry. In its stable are Devki Steel Mills, National Cement and Maisha Mabati Mills. Mr Guru then lived in a palatial home in the neighbourhood of Nairobi’s Runda estate. MADE SMALL TALK I arrived at his house and as we made small talk ahead of the meal, I was surprised to see Kibaki walk into the room in the company of Stanley Murage, his adviser and strategist. Murage had been one of the people who had constantly pestered me to drop out of the race and support Kibaki in return for forming a coalition government after the elections. The others who pressured me were businessmen Peter Munga, James Mwangi both of Equity Bank and Chris Kirubi, a longtime ally of Kibaki. At Guru’s home, Murage made the same appeal as Kibaki listened silently. My answer was the same. I told them I had reached a point of no return. My supporters were psyched and it would have been a be­trayal to them and to democracy for me to pull out at that point. It was a matter of principle. I told Kibaki that if I won the election, I would happily invite him to be part of my government and that if he won; he could also invite me into his government. We left separately after the meal and campaigned heavily against each other. It was not until after elections and as the country was burning that Kibaki’s men made contact again. But this time, they did it through David Musila. Musila came to my Karen home and once again it was to the gazebo that we retreated to discuss this serious matter. We agreed to form a small team to explore the possibility of my party joining the government. On my side, this team comprised Musila, Samuel Poghisio, our party chairman, and Johnstone Muthama, the Kangundo MP. The Kibaki side was made up of John Michuki and Amos Kimunya. This team met in the Office of the President at Harambee House. It was after these negotiators agreed on the rules of engagement that I went to State House to meet with Kibaki. We reached an agreement and the following day Kibaki named me his Vice-Pres­ident. Poghisio was appointed Information and Communications minister. While officially assuming vice-presidential duties on January 9, I reiterated my concern at the spiralling violence and called for national dialogue to restore peace. POSITION NEGOTIATED I was not a conventional Vice-President. My position was a negotiated one. The copy of the MoU between Kibaki and I was signed by Musila and Muthama on my side and Michuki and Kimunya on Kibaki’s side. I must agree that our negoti­ators were weak on the matter of shared seats. We only had the slots of VP and Poghisio’s Information ministry. Mutula Kilonzo would later join the Cabinet. I had selected Charles Kilonzo to be the Water minister and Kiema Kilonzo as an assistant minister. Charles Kilonzo was ignored altogether while Kiema’s posi­tion instead went to Wavinya Ndeti. At that time, though, my mind was not so much on positions. I was keen on halt­ing the bloodletting. I am sure that had I joined Raila in the dispute, the violence would have spread to my strongholds in Eastern province with disastrous con­sequences. This region borders central Kenya. Because of this proximity, thou­sands, perhaps millions of Kikuyu immigrants live here. Many are in the urban centres doing business. Others have bought land and settled in the rural areas. Had I joined the ODM side, I was sure these people would have come under at­tack. I still believe my decision to join the Kibaki side saved many lives. Kibaki assured our team during a meeting at State House of a good working relationship. He told us he would keep and honour every single promise that he had made. He even assured me that he would support my presidency during the next election. However, the political crisis did not abate until Kofi Annan, former United Na­tions secretary-general, brokered a peace accord between Kibaki and Raila on February 28, 2008. Subsequently, a Grand Coalition Government was formed. Raila finally got the prime minister’s position Kibaki had denied him by trashing the 2002 MoU. It pains me greatly that thousands of Kenyans had to be killed for this to happen. Kibaki and Moi were worlds apart in their style of management of government affairs and even in the way they handled their succession. Moi was a hands-on man, full of energy but with a controlling spirit. His desire to be everywhere did at times interfere with operations of individual ministries or gov­ernment agencies. He was, however, a very generous man; generous even with his time. If and when he liked an individual, he would mould, mentor and grow them. Internally, Moi had teams of young brilliant intellectuals from different communities and races who kept a tap on the country’s pulse and would advise him on the possible scenarios and moves of his opponents. No wonder for 24 years he managed to play the role of professor of politics. KITCHEN CABINET Kibaki, on the other hand, kept to himself and only allowed very few people within his kitchen Cabinet to share his inner thoughts. Kibaki had the chance of estab­lishing himself into a Nelson Mandela of Kenya. Had he honoured the LDP/NAK MoU and served only one term as president; had he avoided taking the tribal path and united Kenyans into one nation, he would have gone into history as the greatest president Kenya ever had. But I must say he was very good at delegation. As his VP, Kibaki gave me a lot of assignments to carry out on his behalf but I noted that all the major ones he handled personally. He also gave me a relatively free hand to operate. I would hold sessions with him once a week. We developed a very cordial working relationship right from the first NARC administration. I used this warmth on a num­ber of occasions to help people who were having trouble with him. They included Uhuru Kenyatta, John Michuki and Njenga Karume. Once I was on an official visit to Egypt in 2008 when Mr Romano Kiome, the Permanent Secretary for Agriculture, called me. Kiome, a good friend of mine, was a member of the Kibaki kitchen Cab­inet. He told me that the President had refused to appoint Uhuru as Deputy Prime Minister and instead wanted to appoint somebody else. Kiome wanted me to talk to Kibaki on Uhuru’s behalf and convince him to appoint Uhuru. At the time, there was talk that some within the kitchen Cabinet were pushing Martha Karua’s case. Their argument was that she had defended Kibaki’s disput­ed victory during that tense encounter at KICC between ODM and PNU support­ers in front of the Electoral Commission of Kenya. They said Karua, who served as Justice and Constitutional Affairs Minister ahead of the elections, had been loyal to Kibaki since the Democratic Party days. But the pro-Uhuru group also had a strong argument. The Kanu leader had sacrificed his presidential ambitions to support Kibaki. His family’s money had also played a major role in Kibaki’s re-election. Upon my return, I went to talk to Kibaki. I pleaded with him to give Uhuru a chance. It turned out that Kibaki was not even thinking about Karua. He said he was worried that Uhuru being a Kikuyu, people would accuse him of be­ing a tribalist. I actually managed to convince him and reported progress to both Kiome and Civil Service head Francis Muthaura. Uhuru was thereafter appointed Deputy Prime Minister. MENDING FENCES The other man I helped mend fences with Kibaki was Njenga Karume. The two had been allies until 2002 when Karume abandoned Kibaki and went to the Uhu­ru camp. Nasty words were exchanged between them until some elders inter­vened. But from then on, Kibaki totally ignored Karume, rebuffing all the old man’s efforts to see him. One day in May 2004, I was in my office preparing to go to Rwanda with Kibaki for the 10th anniversary of the genocide when Karume came to see me. He was anxious and in pain. He told me: “Kijana wangu kumbuka nilifanya kazi na Mzee Mulu Mutisya. (My young friend, remember I used to work closely with Mzee Mulu Mutisya). Now I have come to make a special request. President Kibaki has completely refused to meet me or talk to me. Could you kindly talk to him and convince him to meet me?” I promised Karume I would talk to Kibaki. During dinner at the Serena Hotel in Kigali, I broached the topic. I told Kibaki: “Your Excellency, I have been sent by your old friend Njenga Karume to talk to you on his behalf. He would like to meet you.” “I will meet him anytime,” Kibaki responded. I called Karume with the good news. A month later, Karume was appointed minister for Defence in the reshuffle in which I was moved to the Environment docket from the more prominent For­eign Affairs. Then there was the case of Michuki. One day in 2010 ahead of the referendum on the draft constitution, he was in his house when a letter was delivered to him from the president asking him to resign. He had literally been fired. At the time, he was the minister for Environment. The letter could have been prompted by his opposition to the draft constitution but there was also talk of domestic pressure on the president. Michuki’s opposition to the proposed constitution was grounded on the violent events that followed the 2007 elections when he was Internal Security minister. A number of politicians had been indicted for the violence and although Kibaki was not one of them, Michuki was afraid that he could be hauled before court after he left office. The draft constitution clearly stipulated that a retired president was not shielded from prosecution for crimes against humanity com­mitted after leaving office. DRUG DEALERS So while Michuki was thinking of Kibaki’s welfare, some people in the president’s corner appeared not to have forgiven the minister’s perceived past transgressions. I think it had something to do with his handling of the Arturs saga. Artur Margaryan and Artur Sargasyan were two Armenians who claimed to be brothers and who came to Kenya some time in 2005. Raila Odinga, who first broke the news about their presence, insinuated they were assas­sins hired to eliminate those opposed to Kibaki, while others believed they were international drug dealers and smugglers. My one and only meeting with the Arturs happened some time in 2006. I had gone to the Summit Club on the 13th floor of Grand Regency Hotel, now Laico Regency, when I ran into them. Ken Ngumbao, nephew of Nyiva Mwendwa, is the man who introduced them to me. They claimed they were security consultants and offered to supply the ODM presidential campaign team with bullet proof vehicles. Before I left, they requested a photo session with me. We took a picture with them and Ngumbao. Later, this picture was widely circulated and some of my political opponents tried to link me with the Arturs, claiming I brought them to Kenya. The truth is I had never met them nor did I ever meet them again after the Regency encounter. During their stay in Kenya, the Arturs were involved in a number of high-pro­file criminal activities. Just after midnight on March 2, 2006, armed and hooded men raided the Standard Media Group’s offices in central Nairobi and printing press in Industrial Area. The raiders, who were later to be identified as police officers, were said to have been led by the shadowy Armenian brothers. They de­stroyed equipment, putting KTN off air, confiscated broadcast equipment and de­tained and harassed journalists on duty. At Likoni Road, they broke down doors to access the printing press and seized items from the premises, before setting the day’s issue of The Standard newspaper on fire. Michuki later revealed that the Standard Group was raided because its editors were planning to publish and broadcast a series of stories that were damaging to the government and compro­mised national security. GREATER DEMOCRACY “If you rattle a snake, prepare to be bitten,” Michuki told the media after the raid. The raid shocked the media fraternity in Kenya because it was not expected under Kibaki’s presidency. He came to power on the platform of greater democracy and freedom of speech. In November 2010, two parliamen­tary committees on Administration, National Security, and Local Authorities, and Administration of Justice and Legal Affairs, concluded that the raid was facilitat­ed by Michuki, director of the Criminal Investigations Department John Kamau, and Stanley Murage, Special Adviser to Kibaki. Despite their involvement in the criminal raid, the Arturs stayed on in Kenya for a few more months until another incident, this time at Jomo Kenyatta International Airport, led to their expulsion. Arriving from an overseas trip, they refused to be searched and assaulted government officials who tried to enforce the rules. The ugly incident was witnessed by Trade minister Mukhisa Kituyi, an influential member of the Kibaki Cabinet. Soon after this, the two were deported. The Arturs were also linked to a prominent NARC activist from central Kenya. The fact that the Arturs enjoyed the patronage of Michuki was most likely the reason Kibaki came under domestic pressure to fire him after the release of the parliamentary report. After receiving the letter, Michuki called Muthaura and Uhuru. Muthaura called me and later came to my office in the company of Uhuru and the Commis­sioner of Police, Mathew Iteere. They wanted me to talk to Kibaki on Michuki’s behalf. I pleaded with the president to change the course of events. I spoke to him for a long time reminding him that Michuki was one of his most loyal and ef­fective ministers. We even applied pressure using the president’s children. Uhuru spoke to his daughter, Judy, who also added her voice. The sacking instructions were eventually withdrawn. But there were times Kibaki refused to see me even when I had pressing personal issues. During our last days in office I wanted to see him on a matter which I considered important to me. The Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission under Bethwel Kiplagat had released a report which mentioned me adversely in a matter that I knew nothing about. It said I had been allocated public land in Meru which I sold to a third party. I have never owned land in Meru. They must have confused me with somebody else. This kind of information can be very damaging especially at a time I was angling for the presidency. I felt very strongly about the issue and I wanted to talk to the president about it but he was not available. He would not allow me to see him. It is around this time that the issue of the re­tirement benefits for the president, the vice- president and the prime minister was in the news. May be he thought my agenda was on this matter. But I felt it was strange how he signed into law a Bill that only granted him retirement benefits leaving out his co-principal, Raila, and his vice-president. Copyright Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka 2016   Powerful allies of the President wanted Wiper leader to drop out of 2007 race and support incumbent.