A family in Nyayo Estate, Embakasi, Nairobi, has lived with the body of their son in the attic of their maisonette’s for 28 months. It was only on Wednesday evening when a visiting cousin of the deceased stumbled on the skeleton when he went up to the attic to check on a water tank. Now police have launched investigations into the mysterious death. On Wednesday evening the family of Lucy Kina Munyi reported that they had found the skeleton of their son, who went missing 28 months ago. DISAPPEARED IN 2014 Peter Njagi Munyi, who was 22 then, went missing in August 2014. Police on Thursday sought to know how the family managed to live with the stench. Officers said that even after interrogating the family it was still not clear how the body remained in the attic undetected despite evidence that the trapdoor was opened frequently. Even a neighbour who shares the same roof had not reported any foul smell. Ms Munyi’s visiting nephew, Nicassio Mbogo, went to the attic to check the water tank and found the body. NO FOLLOW-UPMr Mbogo said in a statement to the police that he first saw a pair of shoes about four metres from the trapdoor. On taking a closer look, he saw a human skeleton on a mattress. Next to the remains was a bag containing the clothes the family said belonged to Mr Munyi. The square-metre trapdoor appeared to have been opened regularly, according to detectives. The family owns the three-bedroom maisonette, number 208. The family said they could positively identify the body by the clothes and the shoes. EFFORTS TO TRACE SON Ms Munyi said that she reported to the Embakasi Police Station on August 2014 that her son was missing but could not remember the exact date. By Thursday evening police had not confirmed whether the disappearance was actually reported. It could not be established whether the family made any efforts to find their missing kin. “The mother said they reported at Embakasi in August 2014. She, however, did not make a follow-up,” an investigator said. The remains were photographed and taken to the Chiromo Mortuary to establish the cause of death. The mattress, the clothes, the pair of shoes and other samples were taken as exhibits. PROBE TO STARTA post-mortem examination was conducted on Thursday by the government pathologist, but the results were not released. The nephew who discovered the body, Mr Mbogo, had been grilled by the police. Police also took a statement from Lawrence Njeru, Mr Munyi's brother. He was in the house when the body was found. A security guard on duty on Wednesday evening said she only saw a police vehicle parked near the gate. The estate chairman, blogger Robert Alai, said the matter was never brought to their attention. Mr Alai said the family reported the macabre find to the police and the remains were taken away without any of the neighbours noticing. Ms Munyi, the owner of Kina Wear Stores, was one of the main suppliers of Uchumi Supermarkets. Nairobi County police commander Japheth Koome on Thursday said an inquest file had been opened.  