In the last few days, Mzee Jeremiah had gained mileage by convincing Mashambani people that I was the most corrupt person following the tender fiasco. His choice for the leadership of Mashambani Cooperative was Wakageorge, the proprietor of Check Point Hotel. My offer from Makutano had added to my woes. Rumours reached my ears that the old man, who is also known as MJ, was organising a demonstration demanding my resignation as the chairman of Mashambani Dairy Cooperative. Mzee Kabeca, my able treasurer, was on my side together with Wandia’s aunt, but their diplomatic voices could not drown shouts from MJ. And as this went on, Mukwanju, the Makutano farmer was on my case asking me to make a decision to join Makutano Cooperative as a manager. “Dear Mkulima, as we await your positive feedback on serving Makutano people as a manager, we are welcoming you to our offices for a casual meeting with selected farmers on Wednesday. We will meet all costs including transport,” an SMS from Mukwanju read. Come Wednesday at 8am, a taxi was in my compound to pick me. The driver ushered me into the back seat of his new vehicle. I felt like a boss. We arrived at Makutano Cooperative offices at 9:30am. The compound was well landscaped with exotic flowers and they even had a designated car park for the manager. I could not stop marvelling at the dozens of vehicles at the parking lot. ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYMENT PACKAGE This made me wonder whether I was really meeting farmers as Mukwanju had said. In Mashambani, we had trees where farmers and officials parked their bicycles. As I stepped out of the vehicle, the entire Makutano cooperative leadership, led by Mukwanju, lined to welcome me. “Is this the popular Mkulima?” an elderly official, who I later learned was a board member, asked. “Yes he is the one,” Mukwanju affirmed, and later we entered the offices. The meeting room was well set, with the seats arranged around a u-shaped table enabling everyone to have maximum eye contact. What appeared like a casual meeting turned into an official induction meeting. “First of all we congratulate you for the good work you are doing at Mashambani,” Mukwanju said. “These are some of the farmers from Makutano Dairy Cooperative,” he added as he introduced them. The farmers looked different from those of Mashambani, where during meetings, many preferred sitting on the lawn outside rather than in the office. “As farmers, we are humbly requesting you to take over the leadership of Makutano,” Mukwanju said. The employment package was attractive. It included transport, house and disturbance allowances, insurance cover and several others fat perks. In addition, I was to be given a new iPhone, a laptop and monthly airtime. SEIZED THE MOMENT TO ADVANCE MY GOAL I felt like yelling “bring the appointment letter I sign” but I played it cool. “We know it’s a hard decision to make but we called you here to guarantee you our full support,” Mukwanju concluded, as the other board members nodded their heads. Without much-ado, I signed the offer letter that Mukwanju offered me, and was chauffeured back to Mashambani a happy man. But word that I was now the manager of Makutano reached Mashambani before me. I even received a congratulatory message from Wandia before I arrived on my farm. “My dear, consider where you came from. Mashambani people need you more. Never be scared by losers like MJ. Congrats though,” the message said. The taxi driver dropped me back at Mkulima Mixed Farm. In my pocket was Sh5,000 allowance for attending the meeting. Later, Wandia, the girl I love, called. “Please Bae, reconsider leaving Mashambani, please…” But I seized the moment to advance my goal. “Will you now marry a manager?” I asked her. “I love you,” is all she said.   Now everyone at Mashambani village is bidding me farewell and thanking me for the good service.