Kenyan footballers have a bright future in the big European leagues only if they can focus and concentrate on the finer details of the game, Liverpool’s Divock Origi says. The Kenya-born striker notes that for Kenyan players to make the big break, they need to “show passion” for the game. “The only advise I can give the Kenyan players is to have passion in the game, concentrate, enjoy and very soon you will be at the top,” said Origi, 21, whose team faces fellow title contenders Manchester City in a show-stopping New Year’s Eve fixture at Anfield on Saturday. In a Christmas holidays interview with Daily Nation Sport, the Belgium international described Kenya’s Tottenham Hotspur midfielder Victor Wanyama as “a down-to-earth and humble” professional with a great future ahead. Born of Kenyan parents — former Harambee Stars striker Mike Okoth and Linda Adhiambo — Origi made his dream move to English Premier League giants Liverpool in the 2015-16 season after three seasons at French club Lille, having started out at his father’s former club Genk. He was called up by coach Marc Wilmots to Belgium’s 2014 World Cup team, becoming the youngest scorer at the tournament with his strike against Russia in a 1-0 win that sent them into the knockout stage. Origi comes from a footballing family as his uncle, Austin Oduor, is a Gor Mahia legend, having captained K’Ogalo to the Africa Cup Winners Cup title in 1987, while his Norway-based cousin, goalkeeper Arnold Origi, has been a Harambee Stars regular between the posts. He sees more Kenyans making it into the big league. “Of course, in Kenya, just like Africa in general, has lots of talent. Kenya is a big country and there is a lot of hope for the football federation,” he says. “As a player, if you give everything to the game, the game will give something back.” Having visited his Kenyan homeland six years ago at the age of 15, Origi is impressed with the sort of following Liverpool enjoys in Kenya. “The Premier League is the greatest league in the world. I’m impressed (by the support) and I’d say keep on supporting us. Our fans are special and I feel something very special will follow us this season. “Liverpool has been wonderful and I always feel at home here. As a team, we have made a lot of steps and we now want to be in a position to give something to our fans and win the premiership,” he adds, hinting at a possible 19th league title for the Reds after 17 dry seasons. Origi says he knows a little bit about Kenya’s SportPesa Premier League but hardly follows it keenly due to his tight work schedule at Anfield. “It’s very difficult for me to follow the Kenyan league keenly, and I may not be up to date with the league there. But I hope to visit Kenya very soon because it’s my homeland and my blood is Kenyan.” Full interview with Divock Origi and his father Mike Okoth in the ‘Lifestyle’ pullout in the Sunday Nation on January 1, 2017.  