The 2016 Kenyan Premier League awards gala will be held on Tuesday evening at the Safari Park hotel with 13 categories in hot contention and a total cash prize of Sh6.67 million up for grabs. Footballers and stake holders who have been outstanding in the 2016 season will be feted in the colourful ceremony that has been projected to last only 90 minutes. The most coveted award will be the that of the  league’s Most Valuable Player, whose winner will walk away with a cash prize of Sh1 million, as the first and second runners-up receive Sh125, 000 and Sh75,000 respectively. While all winners in each category will get the 43-inch television, the runners up will receive a KG K10 smart phone while second-runners up will walk away with an LG microwave in addition to the individual cash prizes. Rookies Kenneth Muguna and Eric “Marcelo” Ouma are in the running for the MVP award in what is their first season in the top flight, but the youthful duo faces stiff opposition from veterans Humphrey Mieno, goalkeeper David Okello (both Tusker) and Ulinzi Stars striker John Mark Makwatta. “I am honoured to be nominated for this award. It came as a surprise even to me, and I hope that I will win at least two of the three categories that I have been nominated for. I am looking forward not just to the awards but to extend my good performance such that I can be a regular contestant for these annual awards,” Muguna told Daily Nation Sport. The Golden Glove (Goalkeeper of the Year) and Golden Boot (Top Scorer) awards are the next most lucrative categories, as the winners will walk away with Sh500, 000 each. First and second runners-up will take home Sh300,000 and Sh200,000 respectively. Although he managed only 15 goals, Ulinzi Stars striker John Mark Makwatta will receive this season‘s Golden Boot for topping the scoring charts. Muhoroni Youth striker Wycliffe Ochomo and AFC Leopards Kepha Aswani are second and third in that list with 12 and 11 goals respectively. The goalkeeper’s award will be a contest between favorites Boniface Oluoch of Gor Mahia and Tusker’s David Okello, although Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers), James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars) and Michael Wanyika (Kakamega Homeboyz) will have something to say about that Young defender Eric “Marcelo” Ouma will sweat it out with Musa Mohammed, Noah Abich and James Situma in the defender of the year award whose previous winner Karim Nizigiyimana did not make the shortlist this year. The eventual winner in this category will take home Sh300,000, while the runners-up and second runners-up will take home 200,000 and sh100,000 respectively. The Young Player of the Year, a category reserved for players who are playing in the top flight for the first time this season has Muguna and Ouma as hot favourites for the award and the eventual winner will receive a Sh200,000 prize. The Coach of the Year, an award where title winning coach Paul Nkata looks like a heavy favourite, will take home Sh300,000 with the first and second runners up getting Sh175,000 and Sh50,000 respectively. FOYA AWARDS CATEOGRIES MVP Humphrey Mieno (Tusker FC), Erick Ouma (Gor Mahia), David Okello (Tusker), Kenneth Muguna (Western Stima),  John Makwatta (Ulinzi Stars) Midfielder of the year Humphrey Mieno (Tusker), Kenneth Muguna (Western Stima), Whyvonne Isuza (Mathare United), Eric Johanna (Mathare United), Francis Kahata (Gor Mahia) Defender of the year Musa Mohammed (Gor Mahia), Noah Abich (Sofapaka), George Owino (Mathare United), James Situma (Tusker FC), Erick Ouma (Gor Mahia ) Goalkeeper of the year Patrick Matasi (Posta Rangers), Boniface Oluoch (Gor Mahia), James Saruni (Ulinzi Stars), David Okello (Tusker FC), Michalel Wanyika (Kakamega Homeboyz) New Player of the Year Erick Ouma (Gor Mahia), Kenneth Muguna (Western Stima), Calvin Odongo (Posta Rangers), Oliver Maloba (Nairobi City Stars), Brian Marita (Western Stima). Coach of the year Paul Nkata (Tusker), Zedekiah Otieno (Posta Rangers), Henry Omino (Western Stima), Francis Baraza (Chemelil Sugar) and Marcelo Ferreira (Gor Mahia) Fair Play Team of the Year Sony Sugar, Mathare United, Gor Mahia, Kakamega Homeboyz, Western Stima Fair Play Player of the Year Jared Obwoge (Chemelil Sugar), Francis Kahata (Gor Mahia), Amos Asembeka (Sony Sugar), Ali Bhai (Kakamega Homeboyz) Team Manager of the Year Moses Jobita (Western Stima, George Opondo (Tusker FC), Pascal Ochieng’ (Posta Rangers, David Mwangi (Ulinzi Stars), Hillary Ouma (Chemelil Sugar) Centre referee of the Year Anthony Ogwayo, Davies Omweno, David Mulongo, Andrew Juma, Badir Yassin Assistant referee of the year John Alando, Gilbert Cheruiyot, Steven Oduor, Peter Sabatia, Mary Njoroge  