At least 14 police officers were among the 40 people killed in the Naivasha tragedy on Saturday night. Eleven officers — one of whom was a woman — were from the General Service Unit (GSU) while three others were from the Administration Police (AP). The officers from the presidential guard, based at State House, Nairobi, were travelling from Bomet where President Uhuru Kenyatta and his deputy, Mr William Ruto, held political rallies and inspected road projects at the weekend. “The fatalities included 11 officers from the General Service Unit (GSU) who provide VIP protection, including to His Excellency the President,” said Mr Manoah Esipisu, the State House spokesman. “President Uhuru Kenyatta wishes to express his condolences to the families of all the bereaved, including the young families of the gallant officers from the GSU. He also wishes all the injured quick recovery,” he said in a statement to the Nation. A lorry carrying AP officers was also burnt in the 9.30pm accident. A report from police headquarters said three APs in the lorry were among the dead. EIGHT GUNS FOUND Police found eight guns in the lorry. However, one was still missing by last evening. Bullets, some unexploded, were also found strewn on the road. The GSU officers were travelling in a Toyota Land Cruiser back to Nairobi after the presidential event. The unit is commonly referred to as the ‘G’ Company. Its officers are charged with protecting various State houses and lodges. The deceased included two corporals, one of them a driver, and nine constables. They were identified as Corporal Abdisalam Aden, Corporal James Kamau (driver), Constable Esther Mungai, Constable Bernard Kung’u, Constable Alfred Nyabando, and Constable Victor Tumo. Others were constables Samuel Muthiora, Kevin Kibet, Evans Luturomoon, Bernard Mele and Constable Joseph Ouko who plays the bugle during presidential functions. Another officer is in critical condition in hospital. The President had gone to commission the upgrading and construction of two roads to bitumen and also commission medical equipment at the Longisa county referral hospital. On Sunday, police said they were investigating the incident as a traffic accident and said there was nothing pointing to terror or an attack targeting police officers.  