The everyday invention of new products and services has triggered an upsurge in demand for marketing and advertising. Moreover, the highly competitive nature of business today has compelled organisations to have an online presence, to interact with more prospective clients, and to push the boundaries of sales for their products and services. Consequently, businesses specialising in web design and development, commercials, animations, and creative arts have become an integral part in today’s corporate world. Creative agencies have set up base throughout the country thus, in a race to seize the ever-growing market. The firms have tapped into the pool of persons with the zeal for IT, the vastly imaginative, mostly young men and women. These are the brains behind the visually appealing advertisements, fascinating TV graphics and ingenious animations you see every day on TV and online. For them, it is a case of marriage between hobby and career. This is what it takes to be a successful digital designer and visual artist. Name: Anne Mlandi AGE: 25 YEARS COURSES: DIPLOMA IN ICT, WEB DESIGN AND GRAPHICS DESIGN. COLLEGE: NAIROBI INSTITUTE OF BUSINESS STUDIES WED DESIGNER AND FRONT END DEVELOPER, CREATIVE Y&R  What lured you into digital designs? Is this what you always wanted to do? Yes, my enthusiasm for computers led me here. Curiosity also led me into design in different spheres such as print design and web design. I however did not imagine at one point that I would venture into this field in an occupational dimension. Later, I figured out that my career would be very much inclined towards computers.  Briefly describe your journey in creative web design… I dabbled with print design as a hobby after completing high school. I started with designing business cards, posters and banners. After college, I went into creative web design. In terms of skills and experience, it has been an enlightening journey that has greatly been enhanced by my current position at Creative Y&R New Media department, where I focus on website design and development, mobile applications and other online marketing channels.  What is a regular work day for you like? I arrive at work at 9am. After the daily morning meetings of agenda setting, I embark on first finishing earlier assignments before taking on new ones. I am mostly charged with design and development of websites for clients.  How do you go about designing for a client? The client gives a brief of what they envision their product to look like. As an expert in the field of graphics and design, I offer suggestions of the best ways to produce appealing graphics or website. I then discuss the proposal with my colleagues and later, supervisor. After approval, I start working on the project. There are many tools online that aid in coming up with, say, an attractive ad.  Do you have any other enthusiasms besides what you do? With the increasing demand for the multiple-skills set, I double up as a front-end developer, which involves producing HTML, CSS and JavaScript for a website or Web Application so that a user can see and interact with these features directly.  Creative web design is dominated by men, is this a disadvantage for you? I’ve never felt that any profession, male dominated or not, is a far reach for someone who has the drive and desire for it. I don’t believe that women should have lower standards than their male counterparts. Value of work is what matters, not sex. I therefore set my standards high in terms of quality output to stand out. My work speaks for itself.  What is your advice to graduates looking to kick start their career? Do not despise humble beginnings. You will refer to them when you get to the top.  *** Name: Churchill Oele AGE: 23 COURSE: BACHELOR OF BUSINESS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MULTIMEDIA UNIVERSITY (DROPPED OUT IN SECOND YEAR) WEB DESIGNER, OGILVY ONE AFRICA  What drew you into creatives? Is it something you always wanted to do? First, I am a self -taught motion designer, cinematographer and photographer. I was the best drawer in my class. From very early in my life, I wanted to pimp and customise matatus and cars since those days there were cool matatus all over Nairobi. When I completed high school, I wanted to become an architect, but I missed a few points, so I took Business Information Technology at Multimedia University. It is here that I was introduced to cinematography and photography. I learnt sound, camera works, video-editing and stage lighting. I would go to the library and read books on film, animation and photography instead of those on business. My passion grew stronger, and I discovered that this is what I wanted to do in life. I dropped out in my second year to pursue my desire. I joined Ogilvy One Africa in 2015. I am a motion designer and cinematographer. I have designed advertisements, animations and videos for Airtel, Huawei, WWF and Standard Chartered Bank.  Is there something truly unique about designing? Most people assume that creative design is an easy job and that anyone could break into it. In truth however, is it takes a lot of practice and training. There’s also a misconception that creative artists are low achievers academically, but it’s quite the opposite. They are sharp and intelligent people who move the world forward on the virtual scene.  What is a normal work day for you like? I report to the office at 8am. I begin with responding to emails from clients and colleagues. Thereafter I attend a departmental meeting where we deliberate on the day’s activities. Then assignments are issued by the supervisor, depending on the person’s specialisation. I majorly handle advertisements, creating animations and videos for clients.  How much do you earn in, say, a month? Let’s say that I fend for myself and cater for all my needs with ease.  What are some of the challenges that come with your job? Many are the nights I sleep late working on projects. Again as a starter, one has to invest heavily in equipment such as cameras, lenses, high end computers and lights, all expensive.  What has been the highlight of your career? This year I won the Young Photographer of the Year in the Kenya Photography Awards 2016, APA AWARDS 2016, Young Creative and an MSK award.  Are you able to balance work and your social life? In this field you have to be a workaholic, constantly exploring to learn new skills and dynamisms in the trade. Sometimes there’s no time at all for a social life. On weekends however, I try to get time off work, to travel and spend time with my family and friends.  Do you want to pursue creative designs as your long-term career? For now, yes. But later when am tired with advertising, I will start filming nature and wildlife documentaries. I would love to work with National Geographic, BBC or Planet Earth. I would also like to study minimal architecture in the future.  What message do you have for graduates and other young people looking for jobs? Your passion should drive you to doing what you love and be the best in your field. When you are ready to take risks and to sacrifice, the world will always give you what you want.  *** Name: Loice Muoka AGE: 26 YEARS EDUCATION: COUNSELLING PSYCHOLOGY INSTITUTION: UNIVERSITY OF NAIROBI POSITION: CEO, URBAN KREATIVE  Is this what you always wanted to do? In high school, I enjoyed computer lessons the most. I was also fascinated by the question of why we are as we are, hence the psychology degree. I’m living the best of both worlds.  How long have you been in the creative scene? I have been doing this for a year. After graduating, I partnered with other young visionaries, Patrick Nyagah and Joseph Njonjo, to establish Urban Kreative. I oversee the daily operations of the business, while handling the commercial aspect of the business. With a website, companies are able to get demographic data. It also makes interactions with customers more efficient, while driving up profits and the market presence. Enabling businesses to achieve these goals satisfies me.  What exactly do you do for your clients? We are involved with web design and development, web hosting, Mobile Application development, company identity management and Internet marketing services. We also set up POS (point of service) for our clients. As the CEO, I discuss clients’ needs with them, and offer the available solutions. I then relay this information to my team, and also supervise the team to ensure that client expectations and timelines are met.  What kind of businesses do you work with? We work with established companies and startups alike. Working with startups has been a deliberate decision and personal strategy to grow and add value. Interacting and working with startups is exhilarating because you also become part of the growing process.  What is the most remarkable feature about the creative field? No one client’s needs are similar to the other. This as a result demands for adaptability on the part of the business. Dynamisms in technology add more spice to the mix. We are therefore always learning new, efficient and effective strategies in our everyday quest to meet the demands of our clientele.  What is the consumption of animations/creative designs in the local market like? Today, corporates appreciate online presence as a fundamental tool to scale up their operations, to get credibility, value and control, to keep track of their transactions and analytics that promote growth. The idea on the importance of a website is more sellable today, unlike few years back. The local market is on an upward trajectory.  How much do you make in, say, a month? I’ll say this: I’m not where I used to be but I’m not yet where I want to be. I still have a lot to learn and a lot of room to grow.  There must be shortcomings in this job… All sectors have their challenges, but for me, the key thing is to not dwell on problems but instead focus on seeking solutions for them.  Why do you think there are fewer women going into entrepreneurship than men? Attitude among our people is the problem. Being a woman in business is no different from being a man in business. One should never dwell on gender. If a woman does well in her area, she will get recognised.  Is it possible to achieve balance between your work and social life? This job is really wearing, especially mentally. But I create time for both engagements. You will always curve some time for an endeavour that is important to you in your busy schedule. My social life is very much tied to my work, close friends and family. I have learnt to juggle them all without compromising on either of them.  How do you unwind? I enjoy hiking, eating out with friends, watching plays, reading, going to the gym and singing. I’m currently taking singing classes. I always try to grow myself in different ways.  What do you think is the biggest career mistake that your peers often make? They want the end product without the process, something which, take it from me, is not feasible. Tomorrow starts today, so do what you must do today for whatever you have set your eyes on. A little everyday goes a long way. *** Name: Patrick Biwott AGE: 27 COURSE: ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE COLLEGE: MOI UNIVERSITY POSITION: ART DIRECTOR, OGILVY ONE AFRICA  From environmental science to graphics, why the spectacular switch? I always loved visual art. I’m innately an artist. I could draw pictures from a very young age. My interest in digital art is what I can say lured me into creative design. Here, I practice art on a digital platform in an industry that continually stretches the limits of my creative thinking. Environmental science may never have the same effect on me.  How did your journey in digital creatives begin? I began as a self-taught graphic designer. Shortly after, I won an internship at a small advertising agency dealing with clothing. It’s here that I was first introduced into creative thinking that saw me grow from a junior designer to a senior designer. I’m now an art director with Ogilvy One Africa.  In a nutshell, what does your job involve? A normal day for me involves concept development, ideation, which is development of ideas, and visual execution based on clients’ needs and briefs. Depending on the day, there are meetings and brainstorming sessions with colleagues in between.  Which are some of the big organisations you have worked with? I’ve been in the advertising industry for over three years now. Every client is big and important in their own sense. I have worked with Coca Cola, Nivea, Chase Bank, NIC Bank, Samsung, World Wildlife Fund, and World Vision among other big organisations.  What don’t most people know about your job? People haven’t fully understood the professional aspect of advertising through creative design, especially on digital. Also, to succeed in this area, one has to be insightful, as well as research on brands and markets to come up with both effective and attractive concepts. Clients demand a high level of creativity, versatility and impeccable work. So one has to be at the top of their game all the time.  When not at work, what do you do? I enjoy farming, and practice it on a subsistence level on the family farm in Eldoret where, I grow maize. We consume the crop at home and sell the rest to brokers in Uasin Gishu. I believe some future African billionaires will be farmers.  Have you been able to achieve work/life balance? This has been challenging, however, I respect my work and I appreciate my family and friends, so I always try to find a way of balancing the demands and time for family and friends without giving one too much attention at the expense of the other.  What are some of the downsides of this job? Long working hours is the prime challenge. With more people coming in, the field now has very tight competition. Sometimes, there is duplication of ideas where other creative artists replicate your concept and start earning from it, which is unfair. I draw lessons from these shortcomings, nonetheless, and strive to become even more innovative. Challenges are of my growth.  Would you consider a career switch? Creative design is an art. Art is a part of me. The magic of animations is a unique, a highly expressive format and strong medium that connects with people of all ages, religions, gender, and social standing. I love toying with them. So, yes. I will always be a creative.  What message do you have for those who recently graduated and are looking for jobs? Follow your dream, develop a passion for it and remain resilient throughout the journey to achieve that dream.  