Mbita MP Millie Odhiambo, who insulted President Uhuru Kenyatta at Parliament on Tuesday, has attracted a storm of disapproval from politicians, the clergy and ordinary Kenyans. Female politicians said her remarks were a disgrace to female leadership. “Ms Odhiambo has breached the Constitution. Such malevolent behaviour is unacceptable,” Nominated Nairobi County Assembly Women Caucus vice chairperson Zulfa Hakim said. She said the insults not only besmirched the President, but also the Presidency. “We demand that she apologises to the President, women leaders, the people of Kenya and all leaders,” Ms Hakim said. Assembly members Janet Kimondo, Leah Mumo and Millicent Wambui said the MP had infuriated Kenyans and tarnished the political position she holds. On social media, criticism was trending all morning. In the streets of Nairobi, women held a demonstration demanding Ms Odhiambo’s arrest. “We have always encouraged women to vie for elective positions but Millie’s behaviour has cast a bad light on women leadership,” Warembo na Uhuru chairperson Sasha Wamae said. The women were wearing red T-shirts in support of Millicent Omanga, an aspiring woman rep. They carried placards reading: “No, no more insulting our President. Millie Odhiambo, watch out!” and “Uhuru Tosha!” SHOULD APOLOGISE In Mombasa, Jubilee supporters said Ms Odhiambo should apologise to Kenyans and the President within 24 hours. The party’s county organising secretary Amina Abdalla criticised the MP for what she called lack of respect. “The Head of State is a symbol of national unity. Abusing and belittling him is, by extension, abusing Kenyans who elected him,” she told the press. Some religious leaders called for the arrest of politicians who abused the President. Bishop Jackson Kosgei of the Worldwide Gospel Church of Kenya said no one is above the law. “Stop ridiculing the office of the President. We should exercise decorum. The President is the face of Kenya. We are demanding action against the MPs,” he said. “If we allow politicians to make such utterances, we are heading for chaos,” he warned. Mr Miguna Miguna, who is eyeing the Nairobi gubernatorial seat, accused Ms Odhiambo of “silly behaviour”. Ms Odhiambo was among Cord lawmakers who blocked the entrance to the National Assembly to prevent the Speaker from entering and launched a verbal attack on President Kenyatta on camera. They were reacting to what they called police harassment during the stormy session on election laws.  