The health sector is one of the big beneficiaries of technology and allied tech innovations. Technology has taken over the daily schedules of hospitals, and has allowed nurses and doctors to work more efficiently with patients and each other. With appropriate skills and supportive environment, using computerised systems to manage patient information comes with major benefits. These technologies are billed to improve patient’s experience. When operating optimally, patients spend less time at a health facility, their records are clean and their medical history is accessible at the click of a mouse. These technologies also ensure that information taken from patients is collected, collated, curated and analysed faster than when patient information is purely on paper forms and registers. An electronic health records (EHR) system is one of the widely adopted technology for capturing and storing patient information in digital format. EHR is now common in private and in some public health facilities in the country. For example, it eliminates the need to track down a patient’s previous medical records through labourious and loss-prone manual methods. EHR can improve the accuracy of data which can translate to reducing medical errors, saving lives and reducing the amount of money spent on health care. It can also help doctors and other health workers in making better decisions on how to care for their patients. SAFETY OF RECORDSIf not well designed and deployed, there are potential risks to the use of EHRs. Many studies on the system and other health information systems show that if the voice of the patient is not considered in the system design and health provider concerns are not adequately addressed, the system is doomed to fail. For example, it is in the confines of a doctor’s room that a patient narrates the most intimate and sensitive information about their lives. The patient and the doctor would therefore be interested to know the computer system is strong enough to keep the information confidential. In addition, it would be reassuring to know if the system is well insulated against alterations or attack from ill-intentioned people. It would be heart-breaking, at the very least, if that information landed into the wrong hands. The basic questions that a health facility or government deploying an EHR should answer are; when the data goes into the computerised systems, who can access the information on my electronic record? Can the patient get a print out of his record or that of his child to make sure it’s correct if they need to? How is it protected from loss or theft through hacking? Is there a law that specifically addresses security of a patient’s personal information on a digital platform? Health information is uniquely sensitive. It should therefore be insulated against hackers, malicious alteration or loss. But why would patient information interest a hacker, one may ask? WORST FEELING Someone can hack the system just to annoy people or just to make a point that the systems are not as robust as they are thought to be. Others could crack the system to hurt some people or settle scores especially when the information is highly sensitive such as HIV results or substance abuse, especially about people of status in the society. There is need for a law and governance mechanism to ensure that the patient digital information is protected from abuse and that necessary resources, including technical skills, finances and a functional institutional framework are in place and working for the good of the patient. No doctor would live in peace if they found that their patient information, which they vowed to protect, is the fodder feeding the social media. Wambugu is an Informatics Specialist. Samwambugu@gmail.com @samwambugu2  