A disciplinary committee set up by the Wiper Democratic Movement on Thursday threw out Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua and six MPs for supporting other political parties. The committee decided that Dr Mutua, Regina Ndambuki (Kilome), Joe Mutambu (Mwingi Central), Robert Mutemi (nominated), John Munuve (Mwingi North), Kisoi Munyao (Mbooni) and Richard Makenga (Kaiti) should be kicked out. It let nominated MP Robert Mutemi off the hook for lack of evidence. The committee, chaired by Lillian Omondi, resolved that the seven leaders had publicly sided with parties that Wiper had no association with and should be considered to have resigned from the party that took them to Parliament. Dr Mutua was found culpable of supporting Maendeleo Chap Chap, a party he launched in September, and the committee charged that he should be considered to have resigned from Wiper, which is led by Coalition for Reforms and Democracy (Cord) co-principal Kalonzo Musyoka. “The DC (Disciplinary Committee) finds that his conduct expressly and constructively amounts to publicly advocating for the formation of another political party and promoting the interests, ideologies and policies of Maendeleo Chap Chap which is not a member of the Cord,” the committee said. “The Disciplinary Committee recommends that the member be deemed to have resigned from WDMK in terms of section 14(5) of the Political Parties Act,” they ruled. NO SHOW The MPs were similarly found guilty as charged for appearing to support the Jubilee Party, which they had previously claimed to have joined. While Dr Mutua did not formally quit Wiper, he launched Maendeleo Chap Chap, which the governor calls a “movement” for change. When the committee invited them to defend themselves, the MPs did not show up. The decision to throw out the six lawmakers follows that of Cord coalition partner ODM, which last week expelled 10 elected leaders considered “rebels”. They include Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Budalang’i MP Ababu Namwamba, who was the party’s secretary-general. Others are Joash Maangi (Kisii deputy governor), MPs Steven Kariuki (Mathare), Isaac Mwaura (nominated), Zainab Chidzuga (Kwale woman rep), Samwel Arama (Nakuru West), Masoud Mwahima (Likoni) and John Waluke (Sirisia) and Viwandani MCA Samwel Nyangwara. It pardoned Marsabit Governor Ukur Yatani and Igembe Central MP Cyprian Kuba and summoned Mpuru Aburi (Tigania East), Mustafa Idd (Kilifi South), Gideon Mung'aro (Kilifi North), Chachu Ganya (North Horr) and James Rege (Karachuonyo).  