A special ODM national governing council on Monday rejected an appeal by 10 rebel party leaders expelled in October. The council met on Monday to consider a report on the appeal by the rebels. The document had been presented to the organ by the appeals committee, led by Westlands MP Tim Wanyonyi. ODM chairman John Mbadi, who read the final resolutions after the meeting held at Orange House in Nairobi, said the explanations given in the appeal by the affected leaders were frivolous. “It has been resolved that the appellants have not raised any reason to warrant a review of the previous decision taken by the NGC against them. As such, the decision made on October 31 has been upheld,” said Mr Mbadi. Those expelled from the party are Kwale Governor Salim Mvurya and Kisii Deputy Governor Joash Maangi. Others are former ODM secretary-general Ababu Namwamba; MPs Stephen Kariuki (Mathare), John Walukhe (Sirisia), Samuel Arama (Nakuru), Mausoud Mwahima (Likoni) and Isaac Mwaura (nominated); Kwale Woman Representative Zainab Chidzuga; and Viwandani Ward Rep Samuel Nyangwara. DELEGATES NOT HAPPY ODM directed acting secretary-general Agnes Zani to immediately notify Registrar of Political Parties Lucy Ndung’u of the outfit’s position and decision on the appeal. “We also want to appeal to the Registrar of Political Parties to act,” said deputy party leader Wycliffe Oparanya. The delegates attending the meeting were not happy with the explanations given by the appellants, whom they accused of intolerance and arrogance. Mr Mvurya, who was accused of associating with Jubilee, said his appearance at the launch of President Uhuru Kenyatta’s party was by invitation and that he had a constitutional right to freedom of association. He claimed that he was being intimidated by the Orange party. The other nine party members made similar submissions, stressing on their right to association and lack of evidence by ODM that they had other interests. ODM chief whip Thomas Mwadegu supported the expulsion of the rebels, saying they were a liability to the party. “We are asking the party to kick out the remaining moles and rebels. It is better to have a party of loyalists who will represent our interests in the National Assembly and the Senate,” he said. Ugunja MP Opiyo Wandai said a number of ODM MPs and senators were not supporting the party’s position in Parliament.   The MPs are Mr James Rege, Mr Kubai Iringo, Mr Isaac Mwaura, Mr John Waluke, Mr Mpuru Aburi and Mr Stephen Kariuki.