Harnessing rain water can go a long way in addressing your water shortage problems. So a water tank, irrespective of its capacity, ensures that you have some emergency supply. Collecting rain water from mini-gutters with buckets might help, but only for a short time. So it is much better to install a water tank, which has a higher storage capacity. For a long time most tanks were made of concrete, but in recent times technology has led to the production of tanks made from different materials, including metal, plastic, fiberglass and steel. Mr Jacob Gatheru, a Nakuru-based architect, says: “Tanks range from cheap to expensive depending on the material and storage capacity, but having a central water-collection point is better than collecting from different points all over a building,” he says. A tank can be constructed below,  on the ground, or on a raised platform. Above-ground tanks are common and are usually made of concrete, plastic or metal. The concrete ones have to be built while the plastic or metal ones are simply installed. The cost is  determined by the tank’s capacity and the material from which it is made. “However, it is important to note that some of the ready-to-install tanks might not last very long as a result of exposure to the elements. Metal tanks, for instance, are prone to corrosion after some time. To increase their lifespan, you can paint both the inside and outside with durable paint, but this has additional financial implications. HIGH MAINTENANCE Polyethylene or plastic tanks can also be given the same treatment because they are susceptible to ultraviolet rays, which reduce their lifespan. “Painting or covering these types of tanks can prolong their lives,” he says, adding that overhead tanks are easier to maintain since leakages can be detected faster than in underground ones. If you are fussy about aesthetics, go for an underground tank because it can be put out of sight. Mr George Munene, a Nakuru-based fundi, says underground tanks are ideal where space is limited. “Constructing or installing an underground is better and frees the space it would have occupied above ground, which can be put to other use,” he says. He notes that underground tanks are less affected by the weather and the water tends to be cooler since the tanks are not exposed to direct sunlight. However, he notes  that installing an underground water tank is expensive since it involves excavation, which might call for heavy machinery if the ground is rocky.  He adds that concrete tanks should not be installed in places with high water tables since they can be damaged by moisture. Maintenance, too, can problematic. For instance, leakages cannot be detected easily, and sudden unexpected pressure, such as a vehicle passing over them, can make them collapse. Also, tree roots too can also penetrate and damage them. Munene says that to ensure that a tank is durable, durability, it is vital to have the concrete mixture in right proportions. Any concrete tank, whether above or below  ground should adhere to the recommended cement, sand and ballast ratio of 1:2:4. “Failure to comply leads to  structural weakness. Munene and Gatheru point out that with underground water storage systems,  you need pipes and pumps to draw water, unlike raised ground or overhead tanks, which  need only gravity for the water flow. They say it is crucial to protect the  tanks  and minimise the entry of  light to prevent bacteria and algae from thriving inside. Breathers and outflow pipes should be open at all times as pressure build-up can cause the tank to burst.  