BETTY KYALLO AND DENNIS OKARI Their wedding received so much attention and hype with many calling it “the wedding of the year” in October 2015 when they said “I do” to each other. All was rosy and everyone was talking of “relationship goals” whenever a photo of them showed up online. Then the speculation of a break up hit the rumour mill just six months later and everyone became a sleuth.  When the marriage hit rock bottom due to what was termed as “irreconcilable differences”, there was a collective dropping of jaws. Just as they were a trending topic during their wedding day, they also trended on social media when back in April, Kyallo dropped Okari’s name on her Twitter handle and went back to using her maiden name, a confirmation that they really did end things. The two renowned media personalities were notorious for keeping social media users abreast of their day to day activities especially during their honeymoon but it abruptly stopped when rumours of their separation began to do the rounds. KOFFI OLOMIDE Well, this might have been the shortest trip the Lingala maestro ever made to Kenya. In July, the Congolese musician was deported after a video showing him assaulting one of his dancers, only identified as Pamela, surfaced on social media. The Selfie singer, who was scheduled for a concert at the Bomas of Kenya, received public backlash for his action which many condemned on social media. He was arrested while leaving Citizen TV after an interview, spent the night at the Jomo Kenyatta International Airport (JKIA) police station and in the morning deported to Kinshasa. He later apologised saying “…I am sorry for what happened last time and I ask that you forgive me for what happened. I am only a human being even though I am a superstar.” DNG’S WEDDING WENT BELLY UP Betty Kyallo and Dennis Okari’s marriage was not the only one that publicly went belly up this year. Davidson “DNG” Ngibuini’s marriage played out on social media like a bad dream almost a year after marrying his estranged wife Yvette Nungari. After months of maintaining silence on whether or not they were still together, DNG deleted photos of her and soon after pictures of him posing with other women (mostly assumed to be fans) were plastered on his Instagram account. On one occasion, DNG attacked her (Nungari) on social media claiming she had a “dark heart and a s****y personality”. The couple would have celebrated their one year anniversary in May 2016. VISITA AND GRANDPA Nixon Wesonga was appointed vice president of popular record label Grandpa Records early on in the year. But his exit from the stable was much more publicised when he was fired in a dramatic turn of events. Apparently, the Mapepo singer stole a track meant for a young upcoming artiste called Shon Buoy and gave it to rappers Bamboo and Prezzo who used it on their song Za Ovyo. Refigah, the label’s CEO did not want the issue tarnishing his brand and Visita was shown the door. However Visita claimed that he was mistreated at Grandpa which was the main reason for his departure adding that the owner (Refigah) was the only one reaping benefits while musicians earned peanuts. He later purported to open his own studio, Hela Records, posting photos online but a fellow artiste called Jill Baby called him out and claimed it was a lie. AVRIL CALLS OF ENGAGEMENT It looks like 2016 was the worst year for anything marriage related to survive, especially in celebrityville. After years of dating her South African boyfriend Leslie Mugadza, Avril, in July announced that she had parted ways with her fiancé and that they would not be walking down the aisle. The pair’s relationship was always under scrutiny and fans online always wondered when they would get hitched especially after their long engagement. The two began dating in 2013. In February, rumours of a split were rife when Mugadza was spotted with former Big Brother Africa star Delish Matthews on Valentine’s Day. FORMER MISS KENYA’S LEAKED PHOTOS If you had told former Miss Kenya Roshanara Ebrahim that her reign as Miss World Kenya would abruptly end because of a jealous boyfriend who “lacks drive”, then she would probably have reconsidered that relationship a long time ago in favour of her sparkly crown. The beauty queen was last year dethroned when her ex-boyfriend Frank Zahlten leaked her nude photos and sent them to the Miss Kenya franchise holder, Ashleys CEO Terry Mungai. The story goes that Zahlten was becoming abusive, too possessive and emotionally unstable so she broke up with him. Zahlten threatened to leak the photos if she did not re unite with him and after she refused he executed his threat. He has since been ordered by a court of law to pay her Sh1 million for violating her right to privacy. FEMALE RAPPERS ‘LUKEWARM’ BEEF More often than not, the Kenyan female rap scene is nothing to write home about, so it was not a surprise when rapper Femi One decided to stir things up by calling out a few of her fellow musicians for being lazy. Rapper Njeri was the first one to take the bait and responded to Femi One’s song calling herself the master and saying she (Femi One) lacks diversity. Rapper Noti Flow could not take it lying down and wrote a few verses on Instagram basically bragging about her expensive music videos. Kyki, an upcoming rapper also joined in on the beef hoping to get mileage out of the whole musical ruckus. The whole did not exactly excite the industry and the whole “beef season” fizzled out in a month. KIUNA’S PRIVATE JET When Bishop Allan Kiuna posted a photo of a private jet in late December on his Instagram account with the caption “Thank you very much wonderful people”, he got tongues wagging, again. The Kiunas, Allan and Kathy, are no strangers to loud criticism especially on social media and the private jet incident was not any different. The photos were reportedly lifted from different websites so he doesn’t have it just yet. On more than one occasion the Kiunas have been criticised for their lifestyle that screams of opulence through photos they post on social media. WILLY PAUL AND BAHATI If juvenile tantrums in the gospel music scene had a face, then Willy Paul and Kevin Bahati would be on a billboard standing side by side representing it. The two gospel sensations feud dates back to 2014 and ran well into 2016. There has been so much back and forth as to who wronged who that’s it’s hard to pinpoint where it all started. The two were locked out of last year’s Groove awards which many believe to be because of questionable character, misconduct and not leading a “Christian life”. Numerous apologies have been issued between them and their fans but they (fans) are always waiting for something else to spark their beef. BRANGELINA When Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt’s divorce was announced is perhaps the day that many on social media termed “The day love died”. The announcement that the partnership of the world’s most popular actors had come to an end came as a surprise to many. This was one of the most talked about relationships in Hollywood and the world over and their divorce announcement broke many hearts. Like with many high profile relationships, social media users began, again, taking sides, even once more bringing Jennifer Aniston to the conversation since according to them, karma was righting a wrong done to her so many years ago. The two are now in a fierce custody battle over their six children.   