Teachers unions have vowed to oppose any move by their employer to punish head teachers of poorly performing schools saying they are not to blame. Kenya National Union of Teachers (Knut) and Kenya Union of Post Primary Education (Kuppet) instead asked the government to engage all stakeholders in addressing the crisis instead of blaming teachers alone. Knut National Treasurer John Matiang’i said factors such as socio-economic, psychological, environmental and political are to blame for poor performance in schools and not teachers. “It is regrettable looking at facts that all commissioners and senior managers at Techers Service Commission (TSC) are teachers who in the past have been in schools and they understand that many factors contribute to poor performance in schools,” said Mr Matiang’i. TSC in a circular to county directors dated November 29, this year indicated that head teachers who post poor results for three consecutive years will be taken back to class to teach, design, administer and mark assignments. An analysis of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Primary Education (KCPE) examination revealed that some 6,747 candidates had less than 100 marks, meaning that they obtained an average of 25 per cent in each exam and therefore cannot join secondary schools. The pass mark is 250 out of the possible 500. Last year 3,061 candidates scored less than 100 marks while in 2014, candidate who performed poorly were 6,017. Speaking during the release of Kcpe results, TSC Chief executive officer Nancy Macharia said they will study a report on performance of candidates in order to make a decision on where to improve in terms of teaching. Mrs Macharia disclosed that the commission will introduce support systems in order to strengthen teachers so that they can effectively participate in the exercise. “We will look at the performance appraisal and contracting for teachers,” said Ms Macharia. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i said this year’s performance was slightly lower than that of last year. In the examination, Girls performed better than boys in language subjects -—English, Kiswahili and Kenya Sign Language — while boys performed better than girls in Mathematics, Science and Social Studies and Religion On Thursday Kuppet Chairman Omboko Milemba asked the commission to work with other stakeholders in addressing the perennial problem of poor performance in schools. “We should not blame to others, let us work together to correct the mess,” said Mr Milemba. Knut National treasurer said everybody in a society plays a greater role towards performance of the children in schools noting that hereditary factors, diet contribute a lot to performance of children in schools. “The head teacher is a coordinator and manager and he may do very little unless factors such as infrastructure and shortage of teachers are not addressed,” said the Knut treasurer. At the moment, all the 290,000 teachers are being subjected to performance appraisals which is expected to play a critical role in their promotion. Teachers unions have insisted that the country requires over 90,000 teachers to address the shortage. A study by Uwezo Kenya on learning in schools indicate that children are not learning as they should. “On average, 30 out of 100 Standard Three pupils can do Standard Two work, while eight out of 100 pupils in Standard Eight cannot. On average, according to the study, 12 out of 100 teachers were absent from school on the day of the visit. This is worse than was reported in 2014 where there were 9 out of 100 teachers absent on the day of visit.  