Tusker FC’s run in African club championships in the last two decades makes for a painful read. Like the rest of Kenyan clubs, the brewers have failed the litmus test when it comes to continental football. Campaigns in both the Caf Champions League, previously known as the African Cup of Champion Clubs, or the Caf Confederation Cup, initially known as the Africa Cup Winners’ Cup, the brewers have simply failed to froth. Apart from 1994, when they reached the final of the Africa Club Winners Cup, and in 1973 when they sailed all the way to the semi-finals, the brewers’ have failed to ferment in the elite competitions. In their fairy-tale run of 1994, Tusker began their quest for the continental glory by thumping Ferroviario da Beira of Mozambique 5-1 on aggregate before going past Rayon Sports of Rwanda in the second round. At the quarter-finals they beat Stade Tamponnaise (Réunion Island) 2-1 on aggregate before overseeing Mbilinga FC of Gabon at the semis courtesy of a 4-1 aggregate win to set up a tense two-leg final with DC Motema Pembe of Congo whom they impressively held to a 2-2 draw away in the first before suffering a 3-0 meltdown at home in front of unbelieving fans at the Moi International Sports Centre Kasarani to lose 5-2 aggregate and surrender the trophy. It was a tale of so close yet too far. In the first leg played on November 27, 1994, in DR Congo, Monka Ngalama’s 16th minute goal and Buawi’s 45th seemed to give the hosts an advantage heading to the break after Patrick Nachok’s fifth minute strike had handed Tusker the lead but the legendary Henry Motego had other ideas striking in the 55th minute to ensure Tusker carried a healthy two-away goal advantage ahead of the return leg. But on December 10, 1994, at home when everyone expected Tusker to complete the job, they missed the prize losing 3-0 before stunned fans. The year 1973 was also another memorable year as they reached the semis.   Drawing 2-2 with Tele SC Asmara (Eritrea), Tusker, and then known as Kenya Breweries prevailed 5-4 on penalties in the first round before overpowering Simba SC (Uganda) 4-3 on aggregate in the second round. At the quarter finals lady-luck smiled on them as after losing 2-1 on aggregate to Al-Ismaily of Egypt, the latter withdrew allowing Tusker to advance to the semis where they were crushed 4-1 by Asante Kotoko of Ghana, losing 0-2 in Nairobi and 2-1 away in Accra in the return leg. LITTLE MERCY Painfully though that’s where the brewers’ sweet narrative ends as from 1995, no serious attempt has ever been made on the continental front with agro pup stage target remaining a mirage. In 2013 for instance, Tusker participated in the Caf Champions League but were kicked out at the first round. At the preliminaries, the brewers showed little mercy hitting St Michel of Seychelles 7-1 on aggregate winning 4-1 away and 3-0 in the return leg in Nairobi only to succumb to Al-Ahly of Egypt at the first round on a 4-1 aggregate. A year earlier, the script was the same as the Kenyan league champions were kicked out at the first hurdle by APR of Rwanda after drawing 0-0 in Nairobi and losing 0-1 in Kigali, while in 2001, they flattered to deceive making subtle attempts up to round two where they bowed out on away goal rule after drawing 2-2 on aggregate with Esperance of Tunisia. Tusker had won 2-1 at home and needed to be tight at the back to avoid conceding but let one goal leak which sealed their fate. Prior to meeting the Rwanda club, they had knocked out St George of Ethiopia in the first round on away goal rule after drawing 1-1 in Ethiopia preceded by a barren draw in Nairobi, while in 1997, they made no headway falling flat at the first hurdle. The Kenyan giants drew 0-0 on both legs but were undone by the penalty lotteries allowing Al-Hilal to proceed to the next level. Fast forward, as Tusker prepare to make yet another assault in the continental, the expectation is rather muted with stakeholders coy on their ability to rekindle the nostalgic run of 1994 and 1973. FAIR DRAW The cautious optimism is guided by the fact that the Tuesday draws at CAF’s headquarters in Cairo were seen to be fair yet tough. Pitted against Mauritius champions Port Louis, the brewers are considered the overwhelming favourites to win in the two leg preliminaries going by the low profile of the Indian Ocean nation, its league, and their football record. However, a tough task awaits the brewers in the first round where they’ll face Sudan’s formidable side Al-Hilal in the event that they beat the islanders. Here is where the trouble lies. To make it to the group stages, where the financial rewards are high, Tusker will have to outwit Al-Hilal in two leg face off. Ulinzi Stars, who will also be flying the flag in the Caf Confederation Cup, also has a huge fight in their hands as they face Al Hilal Benghazi of Libya at the first hurdle.   But with the financial incentives upped by 66 percent, Tusker should have no excuse of not making it to the group stage and skipper James Situma believes that the have what it takes to go toe-to-toe with the best in the continent. “Every game will be tough but we have to believe in ourselves. What is needed is good preparations and character,” he said.   BOOT CAMP Star striker Allan Wanga, who has amassed vital experience playing across the continent and who will be relied upon, also weighed in. “We have a chance of going far in this competition, and that is our main aim. Looking at our form in the last six months we should be able to match the two teams. Al-Hilal will be tricky, but then, still, we have a chance,” said Wanga, who knows Al-Hilal well from his stint in Sudan which culminated in him scoring the only goal for Al-Merreikh as they beat host club APR to win the Cecafa Club Championship in Kigali, Rwanda, in December, 2014.   Tusker chief executive officer Charles Obiny said that the management will invest in proper preparations with plans to take the team to Europe for a two-week boot camp in the pipeline. “We want to make an impression. We are looking at the prospect of taking the team to Europe for pre-season,” he said, adding: “We also want to beef up the squad and we are looking for a good striker, midfielder and defender. The target is to reach the group stages.” Veteran sports writer Roy Gachuhi, who covered the team in the seventies and eighties, however, warns that as much as Tusker may breeze past Port Loius, it will be no walk in the park against Al-Hilal. In fact, Gachuhi does not seem to buy the idea of the brewers going far. He argued: “I think they will go past Mauritius opposition because traditionally Kenyan clubs have beaten the Indian Ocean teams but I have my doubts when it comes to Al-Hilal. There is a likelihood that they will go out in the early stage. That is quite sad but not unusual,” Gachuhi said, adding: “Kenyan football has suffered a slump over the years which has affected our players. It’s multi-faced in terms of management and talent development. Though most endowed team locally, these problems doesn’t escape Tusker and the reason why we don’t do well is lack of talent development.” Either way, Tusker will be hoping that this time round they will rise to the occasion and that the football gods will be on their side, too. FULL CAF CHAMPIONS LEAGUE DRAW Preliminary round Rail Kadiogo (BUR) v Diables Noirs (CGO) Sony Ela Nguema (GEQ) v Al Merrikh (SUD) Real Bamako (MLI) v Rivers Utd (NGR) Tanda (CIV) v AS FAN (NIG) Goree (SEN) v Horoya (GUI) Johansen (SLE) v FUS Rabat (MAR) Wa All Stars (GHA) v Al Ahly Tripoli (LBA) KCCA (UGA) v Primeiro Agosto (ANG) Mounana (GAB) v Vital'O (BDI) ZANACO (ZAM) v APR (RWA) Ngaya (COM) v Young Africans (TAN) Barrack Young Controllers II (LBR) v Stade Malien (MLI) Zimamoto (ZAN) v Ferroviario Beira (MOZ) JS Saoura (ALG) v Enugu Rangers (NGR) Royal Leopard (SWZ) v V Club (COD) Ports Authority (GAM) v Sewe Sport (CIV) CNaPS Sport (MAD) v Township Rollers (BOT) Coton Sport (CMR) v Atlabara (SSD) Saint-Louisienne (REU) v Wits (RSA) Lioli (LES) v CAPS Utd (ZIM) Cote d'Or (SEY) v Saint George (ETH) AC Leopards (CGO) v UMS Loum (CMR) Tusker (KEN) v Port Louis 2000 (MRI) First legs: Feb 10-12, second: Feb 17-19 First round USM Alger (ALG) v Kadiogo or Diables Bamako or Rivers v Nguema or Merrikh Etoile Sahel (TUN) v Tanda or FAN Esperance (TUN) v Goree or Horoya Wa or Ahly Tripoli v Johansen or FUS Mamelodi Sundowns (RSA, holders) v KCCA or Primeiro Wydad Casablanca (MAR) v Mounana or Vital'O Ngaya or Young Africans v ZANACO or APR Zimamoto or Beira v Controllers or Malien Zamalek v Saoura or Enugu Ports or Sewe v Leopard or V Club Coton or Atlabara v CNaPS or Rollers Al Ahly (EGY) v Louisienne or Wits TP Mazembe (COD) v Lioli or CAPS Leopards or Loum v Cote or George Al Hilal (SUD) v Tusker or Port Louis First legs: Mar 10-12, second legs: Mar 17-19 Note: First round winners qualify for 16-club group phase, which starts on May 12, and first round losers drop to CAF Confederation Cup   Kenyan Premier League champions Tusker will face AS Port Louis of Mauritius in the preliminaries of the Caf Champions League according to the draw done on Wednesday.