The inbuilt difficulties in the recruitment of the next IEBC commissioners have emerged and will become clearer as the process goes on. Already, the selection panel has been forced to annul its own shortlist of candidates for the position of chair, which it then re-advertised, following concerns about the low quality of applicants that formed the shortlist. On the day that the selection panel cancelled the shortlist, a group of civil society organisations, Kura Yangu Sauti Yangu, had planned a press conference during which they intended to reject the shortlisted candidates and to call for the re-advertisement of the position, because they had similar concerns about the quality of the shortlisted candidates. Since the selection panel ended up withdrawing the shortlist on its own, the civil society group decided to hold its peace and cancelled the press conference. One of the reasons the process has attracted such a low calibre of candidates is the amount of political control it suffers. Under the applicable law, both the Jubilee party and the opposition, Cord, got a chance to appoint two members to the selection panel whose other members are representatives of the religious sector. If the equal number of members that Cord and Jubilee brought to the selection panel was supposed to ensure parity between the two parties, that parity gets upset because the selection panel is required to present two candidates for the position of chair, out of which the President will then appoint one. Similarly, the President will appoint the six other commissioners from a list of nine candidates that the selection panel must present to him. Thus, Jubilee participates in this process at two levels, first, as a contributor to the selection panel and, second, as the party whose leader has a final say in the selection of candidates that will be presented to him by the panel. Even if a candidate makes it to the final list of two that the President will then choose from, this only represents a 50 per cent chance of success, which is not very high. It remains unclear what parameters the President will apply when making his choices. People that have ever criticised Jubilee, or expressed opinion that is independent of ruling party, can reasonably expect that the President is unlikely to consider them for selection. There have been discussions among independent civil society groups about the desirability of motivating people they regard as high calibre to apply for the position of chair, if only to improve the calibre of interviews. HIGH-RISK JOB However, these discussions were smothered by the realisation that, ultimately, the President has a gate-keeping role over the appointment process. There is already speculation that a candidate in the new shortlist who enjoys good business and political ties with the establishment is being considered favourably for the position of chair. The inherently controlled nature of the process easily lends credence to this speculation. Conversely, if this candidate is successful, it will be impossible to demonstrate that the selection was the result only of professional suitability for the position. A number of strategic difficulties are also at play and have already influenced the quality of candidates. All the recent leaders of the country’s election bodies have left office ignominiously. The chair of the Electoral Commission, the late Samuel Kivuitu, was pushed out together with his commission, which came under severe criticism over the management of the 2007 elections. His successor, Ahmed Issack Hassan, is also on his way out, together with his entire commission, under very similar conditions. In these circumstances, it is emerging that serving on the IEBC is a high-risk undertaking for people who care about how they are viewed by the larger public. The IEBC positions are likely to attract only the brave or the optimists, or people who do not care how it will end for them. Given the amount of political control over the process, a candidate for the position of chair cannot foretell the final composition of the IEBC, and therefore the likely quality of colleagues on whom that candidate might have to rely when in office. This, itself, is a factor in keeping away good people. Two more issues affect the on-going recruitment process. The first is the extremely limited amount of time that will be available to the commission to prepare for the next election. TOUGH TASK This is the result of delays that occurred in arriving at the decision that the current IEBC will not run the next elections. What was always going to be a challenging job will become more demanding because of the time pressure that has been allowed to build as a result of delayed decisions. The second consideration is the fact that the IEBC is leaving office without a meaningful independent audit to ascertain its internal condition. The new commissioners, with no idea of what they will find when they get into office, will also be required to immediately lead preparations for a big and exacting election that is now only a few months away. While there was plenty of time to make better decisions for the country, that time was squandered and there is none left to apportion blame. There is now only time to work towards creating what increasingly appears an unlikely credible electoral management body, and then to start preparing for the actual elections, amid well-founded concern as to whether, once again, we have flown too close to the sun for our safety. gkegoro@gmail.com  