1. How would you describe yourself? Spontaneous. Curious. Choleric.  2. What do you remember about being 21? I was working, work that can only be described as manual labour. I was also a college student at Kenya Christian Industrial Institute.  3. How would those you went to school with remember you? As a social person. I was very sociable. I was outgoing, enjoyed meeting new people and making new friends.  4. How did you strike a balance between your social life and studies? I don’t know if I really managed to strike a balance as I dropped out of college after one-and-a-half years. I dropped out due to a busy schedule and family-related obligations.  5. What are some of the highlights of your time in school? I find formal education really boring, but it is necessary. My most interesting and favourite moment at university was taking a class in critical thinking. I think it should be included in our high school curriculum so that learners can be empowered to think for themselves from an early age.  6. What mistakes did you make in your youth? I am still making them. That is the only way to keep learning. If you are not making mistakes, you are not learning, in fact, I wish I would have made more mistakes when I was younger, that way, I would have learnt more, making me a better person.  7. A car or a house. Which came first? A house came first. It was a priority as I needed a place to live more than I needed a car.  8. Let’s talk about your career. Did you plan to be where you are right now? I do a vision board every five years, I started doing one before I even knew what a vision board was. God has been amazing in helping me achieve my goals so far, so yes, planning and setting goals played a role in getting me here.  9. What are some of the highlights in your career? Being invited as a key speaker during the 2015 Global Entrepreneurship Summit (GES), held in Nairobi and officiated by The President of The United States, Barack Obama. Here, I set the stage and discussion on the importance of specialty incubators and the key role innovation hubs play in the success of a startup business. I have also served as vice-chair of the technical team that put together the first ever Kenya National Innovation forum, whose result was the establishment of Enterprise Kenya, Kenya’s trade entity for innovations. Due to Nailab’s contribution in establishing the startup business ecosystem in Kenya, I have served on the board of several startups, including Akvo, Nailab and Kenya’s IT and Outsourcing Services Body (KITOS).  10. What else are you passionate about besides your job? Travelling and meeting smart, curious and interesting people.  11. Your Top Five secrets to success Read a lot. Knowledge builds confidence. I travel, which gives me lots of exposure.  I am also curious and quick to adapt to change and new technologies. I find great mentors, and above all, I never give up.  12. Why is it important for university students and graduates to think of entrepreneurship? Young people do not have to think entrepreneurship. Being employed is also a very stable way to earn a living. That said, being an entrepreneur is way harder, but way more rewarding.  13. Who is your role model/mentor? My role model is David of the Bible. His story encourages me that no challenge is beyond my capacity.  14. Your advice to that young person who looks up to you? Be you. Work hard. Be respectful. Be generous. Never give up.  15. Most interesting book you read lately? Movie? The Prophet, by Kahlil Gibran. I enjoyed watching Black Mirror and my all-time favourite, The Godfather.  16. What is the most important lesson you have learnt about money? Money does not define success. Money is a means to an end. Make money work for you, don’t work for it.  