Four former Uchumi directors have gone to court to stop penalties imposed on them by the Capital Markets Authority (CMA) for alleged violations at the troubled supermarket chain. In their case, Chadwick Okumu, James Murigi, Bartholomew Ragalo and Joyce Ogundo claimed the authority punished them for decisions taken collectively at Uchumi's board meetings. Through lawyers John Khaminwa and Jotham Arwa, they sued the CMA for issuing them with notices to show cause in August, a year after they had already left office. Even though they filed separate suits on Monday, they all challenged the CMA’s decision to punish them and want the court to quash penalties imposed on each of them. “With a view of implementing its alleged decision, CMA has issued an enforcement order requiring them to comply, besides incurring several other irreparable losses and damages within 15 days which expire as of today,” Mr Okumu said. CONFLICT OF INTEREST Last month, the regulator fined Mr Murigi and Mr Ragalo Sh600,000 and Sh855,000, respectively. Along with ex-chief executive Jonathan Ciano, finance director Okumu, the retailer’s former chairman Khadija Mire, the two were banned from holding office in any publicly listed company. In addition, Dr Ciano was slapped with a Sh5 million fine and is expected to refund Sh13.5 million in earnings he made from Uchumi for allegedly failing to disclose that he had a conflict of interest during his tenure on the board. The four are accused of violating certain provisions of the CMA Act, the Securities and Public Offers Listing Disclosures regulations as well as guidelines on corporate governance by publicly listed companies. They claimed that they were issued with notices to show cause on August 31 and asked to appear before the authority and explain why sanctions against them should not be issued since they all sat as Uchumi’s board members when the impugned decisions were made. They argued that there was no connection drawn between the alleged violations and the cash-flow problems that Uchumi subsequently suffered. SELECTIVE PUNISHMENT They also argued that minutes of the meeting in which they are accused of making the impugned decisions indicate that resolutions with regard to the violations were discussed. They claimed that the issues the CMA is referring to were indeed discussed in several other meetings that involved the board that was there before them in which the four did not participate. They alleged that some directors who were present in the said meetings have not been subjected to the same sanctions and penalties and hence the CMA has acted in a discriminatory manner. They also alleged that the authority wants to punish them personally for wrongs allegedly committed by the board of directors on the basis of information and professional advice received from the management of the company. They further alleged that the CMA seeks to punish persons who do not fall within its regulatory ambit and hence that violates their right to a fair trial. According to Mr Okumu, he has suffered damage to his reputation and his profession as a certified public accountant by not being able to hold onto a job.   Mr Okumu was detained at the Muthaiga Police Station.