With the United States elections last year and Kenyan elections this year, many conversations—many heated arguments—will once again revolve around choosing the next president. Concern for politics is not a bad thing. On the contrary, Christians should be keenly interested in the affairs of this world. Even so, remember the distinction, as St Augustine famously phrased it, between the “city of God and the city of man”. Never forget that heaven and earth will pass away but our Lord’s words will never pass away. Determining where we spend eternity is more important than determining who will be the next president or the next governor. Choosing our leaders is crucial because we need leaders who will uphold the law of God. If we choose corrupt leaders, we make it hard on ourselves. We make it hard to follow God’s law. It becomes very difficult for the average citizen to avoid corruption. More importantly, we make it almost impossible for those locked in a cycle of poverty to escape from the degradation they suffer—which makes it very difficult for the majority of men and women to believe the Gospel and put it into practice. CITIZENS OF TWO CITIES All believers are citizens of two cities, and it would be wrong to neglect our obligations as citizens of this world. Indeed, God will judge our worthiness to enter into his kingdom by looking at the way we strive for peace and justice here and now. Even so, beware of the tendency to allow politics to raise your blood pressure excessively. Perhaps it helps to paraphrase the way one modern author imagined Satan giving advice to another devil on how to keep Christians from being faithful to Jesus: “Get them to argue about politics. The more furious their anger with other Christians, the better. They will end up so consumed with worries about who is in and who is out that they won’t have any time for God.” The words of Psalm 118 can never be repeated too often: “It is better to take refuge in the Lord than to rely on men; better to take refuge in the Lord than to rely on princes.” Never forget: the world as we know it is passing away. I once heard a holy man summarise it this way: “Look: happen what may in the world around you, never forget that the importance of events or of nations is very relative. Calm down: let time pass; and then, looking at persons and happenings from a distance and without passion, you will see things in perspective; you will put each thing in its proper place and at its proper scale. If you act this way, you will judge more fairly and spare yourself many a worry.”  jbabendreier@yahoo.co.uk  