Eston Maina was hit by a speeding vehicle at around 5am on Monday in Kirinyaga. Several hours later, he was still lying at Karatina Referral Hospital despite having a broken jaw, fractured leg and arm and a dented face. His family members were frantically running up and down the Hospital pleading with the available nurses to check on him, but none responded to their pleas. He stayed at the injection room for over five hours with no clear communication from the nurses who took him in. “We don’t know if they have dressed his wound yet. We had not come here prepared for this,” said Mr Gerald Chege, a relative. This was the situation at the referral hospital on Monday as doctors and nurses downed their tools across the country throwing health services into a crisis and suffering for patients. Outside the Hospital, family members of the accident victim and other patients were deliberating on which hospital to take their kin. “He is detained at the injection room for hours and he is not receiving treatment. We are hoping the hospital will release their ambulance,” said a distraught relative. Mr Maina’s relatives insisted he needed medical attention immediately he got to the hospital because he was bleeding and had lost a lot of blood. They did not have money to pay for any other means of transport to Consolata Mathari Hospital some 31 kilometres away from Karatina. The ambulance delayed for over 30 minutes before taking off after loading him into the vehicle. “The government should listen to the doctors and respond to their wish so that lives cannot be lost,” said Ms Lilian Njoki, Maina’s grandmother. No one at the Hospital gave a comment on his status. Meanwhile, Consolata Mathari Hospital, one of Nyeri largest private Hospitals, has an overflow of patients within the first day of the doctor’s strike. Upon arriving at the hospital, the Nation caught up with Mr Maina’a relatives who lamented the hospital was full to the brim and were told to wait a little longer. The worst hit are the pediatric, casualty and maternity wing, according to the hospital’s Chief Executive Officer Bernard Muriithi. “We have more admissions than normal. We might not have a shortage in personnel and surplus but we will definitely have a crisis on space,” he said. The hospital is currently over and above capacity having admitted 54 patients by midday, being referrals from public hospitals. “We are responding to the circumstance by adding more beds to the hospital and there is a possibility the hospital will be full by the end of the day,” said Mr Muriithi warning that they will not admit beyond 200 patients. They have admitted 170 patients against a capacity of 110 inpatients. At the Nyeri Referral Hospital, family members rested on benches outside the Hospital waiting for their patients to be cleared. From the wards, the guards were on high alert to monitor patients whether they have been cleared before being transferred to other facilities. “We have been instructed to check everyone leaving the hospital to have cleared their bills,” said a guard who sought anonymity. Some of the patient’s relatives were left stranded at the Hospital as they could not afford the bills at the moment. “It is rather unfortunate that we cannot access health care in public hospital where we are supposed to be served to our ability to raise funds,” said Mr Patrick Mwangi, who had brought his father to the hospital from Murang’a, two days ago.  