Jamhuri Day celebrations in Mombasa, Tana River and Kilifi counties were disrupted as political rivalries took centre stage on Monday. In Kwale, where Governor Salim Mvurya has defected to Jubilee, ODM politicians kept away. At the Tononoka Grounds in Mombasa, GSU officers had to intervene and maintain order as two women’s groups supporting Governor Hassan Joho and Nyali MP Hezron Awiti heckled each other for more than 30 minutes in front of leaders who watched from the podium. Efforts by county commissioner Evans Achoki to calm the rowdy groups bore no fruit and he was forced to proceed with his speech amidst the chaos. Two Land Cruisers full of GSU officers and quick response team of the Administration Police had to be deployed between the groups to keep law and order. The heckling began when leaders affiliated to Jubilee and Cord started addressing the gathering. But Mr Joho and Mr Awiti did not comment on the chaos when they spoke. FULFIL DEMANDS The governor said it would be difficult to fulfil the demands by the striking doctors and nurses because the governors were not part of the 2013 salary deal and hinted that his county would seek a local solution to the matter. Mr Awiti urged the county government to fix the broken drainage system in Mombasa by engaging the services of qualified engineers, saying it had adversely affected tourism. He also called on the county leadership to give youth resources to empower them economically. In Kilifi, Governor Amason Kingi accused the county commissioner of being a Jubilee agent instead of a non-partisan civil servant. And in Tana River, rowdy  youths accompanied by Galole MP Hassan Dukicha stormed celebrations venue as Governor Hussein Dado and County Commissioner Isaiah Nakoro watched. The young people allied to Mr Dukicha and his Garsen counterpart, Mr Ibrahim Sane, who want Mr Dado out in 2017,  clashed with the governor’s supporters, briefly disrupting the event. Reports by Kazungu Samuel, Daniel Nyassy, Galgalo Bocha, Mohamed Ahmed, Farouk Mwabege and Nehemiah Okwembah  