Last week Cord leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka said that Kenya’s bid to withdraw from the International Criminal Court was wrong because it would amount to endorsing impunity. The leaders were responding to President Uhuru Kenyatta’s announcement on Jamhuri Day that Kenya was going ahead with plans to withdraw from the ICC. I believe that leaders from both the opposition and the ruling party are being disingenuous — or at least economical with the truth. What strikes me is how quickly they have forgotten that members of both the current government and the opposition have at one point or another either discredited the ICC or actively sought to engage with it. If you recall, when Kenyans were given an opportunity to establish a local tribunal to prosecute the alleged perpetrators of the 2007/2008 post-election violence, the Deputy President William Ruto, who was then a leading figure in the Odinga-led Orange Democratic Movement, campaigned for the trials to be held at the ICC. As fate would have it, he would later be named by then ICC Chief Prosecutor Luis Moreno Ocampo as among those bearing the greatest responsibility for the violence. He then changed his tune and used all the resources at his disposal to undermine the ICC case against him. FILLED WITH INTRIGUE When Justice Philip Waki handed over the secret list of the names of the suspected perpetrators of the post-election violence to Kofi Annan in 2009, Kenya had the option to form a local tribunal within a year, but failed to do so. At that time, Odinga, who was then the prime minister, had campaigned for the formation of such a tribunal, if for no other reason than that it would end speculation about the identity of the perpetrators. When the ICC went ahead to charge the so-called Ocampo Six with crimes against humanity, Kalonzo Musyoka, who was then the vice-president, travelled to New York to try and convince the UN Security Council to defer the cases, ostensibly because “the ICC process has the potential to affect Kenya’s fragile stability”. The whole episode was filled with intrigue and innuendo. Ocampo’s threat that he would “make an example of Kenya” sounded childish and vindictive. Annan’s decision to hand over the secret list of names of the perpetrators to Ocampo was probably made in good faith but had the net effect of shrouding the ICC cases in ambiguity. This ambiguity was exploited by Kenyatta and Ruto, whose 2013 election campaign was pegged on the claim that they had been “fixed” and scapegoated by the likes of Odinga and others who were using the ICC to get rid of their political rivals. The ICC ended up delivering the presidency to Kenyatta and Ruto. If the court had not relentlessly pursued the Kenyan cases (and bungled them), there would be no Jubilee government in place. The ICC cases, therefore, had the unintended consequence of galvanising a nation against it. POLITICAL UNITY Ugandan political scientist Mahmoud Mamdani controversially wrote that what Kenya experienced in 2007/2008 was a civil war, and in civil wars all parties engaged in the conflict bear some responsibility for the violence. In such cases, the judicial process should be subordinate to the political process, which in Kenya’s case was political unity and reconciliation between two of the major warring tribes. Unfortunately, the social and economic cost of this political union has been unacceptably high. Kalenjin and Kikuyu politicians interpreted the truce between the two communities to be a licence for theft and impunity. Members of the Jubilee government have been implicated in a looting spree of the public coffers that has not been witnessed since the Moi years. The lesson from this saga is that if political reconciliation between two groups results in the political and economic exclusion of other groups, there is no guarantee that electoral or other types of violence will not remain an option for the disenfranchised — with or without the ICC. Let us also not pretend that the ICC is not a politicised institution. Leaders from powerful countries, particularly the United States, Britain, France, Russia, and China (the five veto-holding permanent members of the UN Security Council) have not faced any consequences for the war crimes they have committed in Iraq, Syria, and other places. This imbalance in the international justice system undermines the credibility of ICC and its advocates. rasna.warah@gmail.com  