Tourism in Lamu County is showing signs of revival following an increased number of both local and foreign tourists who are flocking to the Lamu archipelago for the December holiday. The sector has been facing numerous challenges owing to low numbers of tourists following the 2014 Al-Shabaab terror attacks across the county where at least 100 people lost their lives and property worth millions of shillings destroyed in Mpeketoni, Kibaoni, Witu and Hindi. Speaking to the Nation on Friday, former county chairman of Lamu Tourism Association (LTA) Ghalib Alwy said they have recorded a high number of hotel bookings since the December season began. He said the large number of tourists who are visiting the region is an indication that they are once again gaining confidence in the county. Mr Alwy said many others were even setting permanent residences in the county. He said the situation is attributed to the efforts made by the national government in fighting Al-Shabaab and addressing insecurity. He noted that unlike previous seasons in the last several years, this December festive season has attracted a large number of tourists who are expected to tour the region. RISE IN HOTEL BOOKINGS “We are happy that the tourism sector in Lamu has revived. If you compare the number of tourists that have already booked places here in Lamu for the (2016) December season and that of the previous years, there is a notable big difference. "Our hotels are currently receiving guests from Germany, UK, France, US, Switzerland and other countries,” said Mr Alwy. He lauded the move by the French Embassy to lift their travel advisory that had existed in the region for almost five years saying it is has contributed greately to the current improvement of the tourism industry. Mr Ali Bunu, a proprietor of the Sunsail Hotel in Lamu Town, lauded the ongoing Operation Linda Boni saying the operation has helped to restore a sense of security and calm. ISLAND OF FESTIVALS He also lauded the Lamu County government for the continued efforts to hold various festivals which he said have greatly helped in maintaining the image of Lamu which was recently branded the ‘Island of festivals’. Meanwhile, security has been beefed up in Lamu as Christians prepare to celebrate Christmas on Sunday. Lamu County Commissioner Joseph Kanyiri told the Nation on Friday that they will ensure all churches and other public places receive 24-hour security. He called on locals to cooperate with security officers and report any suspicious individuals or incidents for prompt action. “We have deployed enough security officers in all places of Lamu. We want to ensure citizens and property are protected throughout this festive season. “Lamu is safe and I take this opportunity to wish my Christian brothers and sisters a merry Christmas and a happy new year,” said Mr Kanyiri.  