For many people, the last two weeks of the year that make up the Christmas and New Year break, are a time to take leave from work, to relax and to recuperate, but not so for mothers. Though a mother may be off-duty from work, chances are her house help is away, so the domestic and childcare duties fall squarely in her lap. Handling the season calls for plenty of patience and imagination. First-time mothers, especially, find themselves in a pickle since they haven’t learnt to manage their expectations of the season and don’t have the hindsight from experience. For Victoria Kisoryo, a married mother of Kogen, a boy who is a few months shy of two, last year’s holiday season was an important learning curve. Looking back, Victoria isn’t pleased about the super-mum attitude she adopted for the two weeks her house help was away for her Christmas break. Neither she nor her young family was in any mood to embrace the season, even though it was their first as a family. “It was Kogen’s first Christmas and I lost sight of that. I was too busy trying to run the house and keep everything under control, barely holding on to my sanity. He and I both lost weight! “I had released my house help a week to Christmas. I thought I had it all in the bag – doing the laundry, cleaning and cooking – but by the end of the first day, I realised I needed more help than my husband was available to give. It was hellish! I absolutely did not enjoy myself,” she recalls. Victoria later hired a day-bug to help with the cleaning but it was too little too late, New Year was already knocking at her door. “The real work wasn’t in the cleaning, it was in taking care of the baby. All young relatives that could help were always conveniently ‘occupied’. I was on my own.” Knowing what she knows now, Victoria is doing things differently this year. “I plan to rock this season,” she says laughing. “I have family visiting from the UK so we’ll paint the town red before we all head out to the village. I’m looking forward to it! I’m well-rested and in a sane place. It’ll be exciting for Kogen because it’ll be his first time in the village. I’m sure he’ll enjoy the open spaces, the kids, the food and the fresh air.” Victoria will reflect the Christmas cheer in her house as well. “I’ll get a tree, put up some decor and sing along to Rudolph, the Red-nosed Reindeer.” This year, Victoria has also hired an extra pair of hands – live-in help to hold the fort for her regular house help who left for Eldoret in early December. For single mother and 31-year-old marketer Tamara Nerima, her plan is to focus on bonding with her son Nate, without giving herself or the boy too much pressure. FAMIL TRADITIONS “I enjoyed myself over Christmas last year. I spent my time at home just being a mum, goofing around and introducing Nate, who is three, to Christmas. I attempted to explain to him who Jesus is and why we celebrate Christmas...” she chuckles then continues, “I got him his first Christmas tree and we decorated it together. I love to cook so on Christmas Day I made us a proper English Christmas lunch. We spent the day feasting with family, drinking and watching old classic movies like Sound of Music and Mary Poppins.” “Christmas is so important for kids, you have no idea. As adults one of the holidays we always remember is Christmas, so we should do our level best to rally family and friends and to create memories for our kids, they’ll cherish these memories. Teach them that Christmas is not about presents and parties, it’s about togetherness and love.” Christmas for Tamara and Nate this year will be an equally low-key affair. When asked about having her own fun, she laughs out aloud. “I save that for the New Year. Christmas is family time and New Year is party time. My mum helps me out with Nate but essentially the responsibility is on me. I love having her around over the holidays. I shall take a break from being a mum for a few days while she takes over so I can let loose and usher in the New Year in style with adult company.” Joy D’Souza, a research analyst, blogger, wife and mother of two daughters remembers last year’s Christmas as hectic and overwhelming under the weight of responsibility. “I had just gotten Xia and she was only three months old in December. Xena – my eldest daughter – was three years old and quite a handful. Handling two kids for the first time without the help of a nanny was an arduous task. I’m from Nakuru and the mister is from Kericho. We travelled to his shagz for Christmas then to mine for the New Year. “I’ll be honest with you, as a mum I didn’t enjoy myself. Not one bit. Xena became unruly and manipulative after she realised she could get away with mischief as long as her grandparents and uncles were around. It drove me nuts! Trying to keep her grounded was a monstrous mission. Pressure from my mum and her friends on how best to handle an infant infuriated me. But –,” she says as she changes tone and softens into a smile –, “seeing my parents and in-laws, especially my mum, so elated with having the grandkids over gave me joy.” This week, Joy and her husband celebrated their three-year wedding anniversary and she took this opportunity to let her hair down on a retreat away from home, in readiness for the “chaos” of Christmas. “We’ll travel to shagz again for Christmas and New Year this year.” “I share childcare duties with my husband.  He takes care of Xena, I take care of Xia.” Joy runs a kids fashion and lifestyle blog with Xena and usually uses travel time to take photos and collect content for their blog, but she’s chosen to let that pass this year; they’ve worked hard enough already in the last few months, she says. Joy ends our conversations with two golden nuggets, from the hindsight of a heavy plate last year: “Keep the nanny if you can and pay her extra. Some people don’t mind working over the holidays then taking their leave later on in the year. But if that’s not possible, reconcile yourself with the fact that the holiday season will not be as exciting for you as it will be for the kids and their dad. Don’t be fussy, though – if they are poor feeders and want to be outdoors playing from 8am to 6pm, let them be. That’s the highlight of their holiday and it will be for a short period anyway.”* ******* Christmas wisdom for mums Tamara Nerima Focus on creating fun memories for the kids. Teach your kids that Christmas is not about gifts and parties, but about togetherness and love. Pass on Christmas traditions to your kids. Christmas is family time, New Year is party time. Take a break from being a mum for a few days and let someone else take over as you let loose and have some fun. Victoria Kisoryo Don’t try to be a supermum. Hire live-in help to hold the fort for your regular house help. Focus on enjoying the Christmas cheer with some fun rituals or traditions. Get away to the village for a different experience if you can. Joy D’Souza Keep your nanny for Christmas and pay her overtime if she is willing to take her break at a later date. Don’t try to do it alone. Share childcare responsibilities with your husband. Accept that as a mother, you may not have as much fun as your husband and kids. Don’t be fussy about things being done perfectly, let the kids be for this short period.  