The Rumba fans have this week marked the third anniversary of the death of crooner, composer and band leader Tabu Ley Rochereau. However, the biggest news coming out of Congo DR is the return to Tabu Ley’s band of one of its most talented members. Nearly 30 years since she quit Afrisa International Band to pursue a solo career, songbird Mbilia Bel is set for a big reunion with her former band mates later this month. It is at Afrisa that Mbilia Bel rose from a dancer to a great vocalist with a string of hit songs. In the 1980s, in collaboration with her mentor, Tabu Ley, she produced hits such as "Nakei Nairobi", "Nadina",  "Eswi Yo Wapi", "Paka Wewe", "Beyanga", and "Boya Ye", among others. Mbilia left the band in 1987, following much-touted differences within the band. It was then widely believed that the entry of another mercurial singer, Faya Tess, might have been one of the reasons for the friction within the band, with talk of rivalry for the attention of their boss. Faya Tess and Mbilia Bel were believed to have been romantically involved with Tabu Ley. Proof of this on Mbilia’s part is daughter Melodie, who bears a striking resemblance with a man considered to have been one of the greatest Congolese and African musicians of all time. Speaking to the Saturday Nation from Brazzaville, capital of the other Congo across the river from her native Kinshasa, Mbilia expressed her eagerness to team up with her former colleagues. The reunion will happen during a tour to USA. FINALISING TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS “I am just finalising arrangements for my travel to America,” she said. Similarly she dispelled rumours that had been circulating on social media this week about her condition. “I’m alive and well and those spreading the rumours are most likely detractors,” she said. Tabu Ley’s anniversary was marked this week on Wednesday. In its heyday, Afrisa International was considered the most influential Congolese group, probably at par with Franco’s TPOK Jazz. It had a huge following across East, West, Central and southern Africa. For the next three months, the band will perform in several cities across the USA. For the last two years, the band has been led by long-serving manager Mekanisi Modero. The group has also been working on a new album to feature both new and old songs by the Afrisa International. Speaking to the Saturday Nation early this week, Mekanisi said they had been working on a grand reunion with most of their former colleagues. “We have held some shows in the USA but hope to extend the special Afrisa concerts to other continents,” he said. Last weekend, Mbilia staged a concert in Brazzaville, which doubled as a launch of her new singles and a prelude to the third anniversary of Tabu Ley’s death. Also in her impressive discography are some of the ever-popular songs she recorded with the Afrisa International including "Cadence Mudanda", "Yamba Ngai", "Kamunga", and "Manzil Manzil", among others. Mekanisi said there was plenty of excitement among fans of Congolese music in USA about the impending arrival of Mbilla Bel. Also in the group are soloist Huit Kilos, singer Wawili Bonane and talented bassist Ngouma Loukito. Veteran  Paris-based Afrisa guitarist Dino Vangu, who for many years was a key member of the group, is expected to join the band later in the year. Tabu Ley, who died in Brussels on November 30, 2013, is remembered for his richly melodious voice and his mega compositions such as Sorozo, Maze, Christina and Muzina. He also performed with Kinshasa-born Angolan singer Sam Mangwana,  Dr Nico wa Kassanda, Grand Kalle Jeff, Paul Ndombe Opetum, Kiesse Diambu and Mavatiku-Michelino, among others  during his illustrious musical career. This  week in Kinshasa, the rest of Africa and Europe, there  have been a series of shows to mark Tabu Ley’s third anniversary. The rumba beat has seen a resurgence with younger musicians and veterans such as Faya Tess, Koffi Olomide and Ferre Gola doing exciting new covers of the music of Tabu Ley and other Congolese greats.  