Over the past decade, I have been privileged through this column to be the echo chamber for the nation’s nonsense as it negotiated its identity, politics, values and leadership. This has been a place of anger, frustration and exasperation for the things that were within Kenya’s reach and yet remain inexplicably unattainable. There are thousands, perhaps millions, with whom we have been on the same wavelength, believing that irony is the best revenge against public displays of stupidity. A few helpful correspondents have written in saying they get it, but millions of their friends do not; hence the need to spare them further agony by writing plainly. This legion of individuals who do not “get satire” was revealed in its full splendour and majesty through its reaction to a contribution on the security operation targeting Somalis in Kenya. A swift global online petition to have this column discontinued received an overwhelming seven signatures. Perhaps the most bizarre have been journalist friends from the United Kingdom who have insinuated that Kenyans do not have the aptitude to understand sarcasm. A fitting response is always to invite them to study the speech mannerisms of African grandparents, who are easily the originators of satire in all its glory — irony, sarcasm, parody, mock encomium, hyperbole and understatement. Responses and reactions — from the embarrassing praise, critical acclaim to prosaic fisticuffs — are the oxygen that keep long-running columns alive, even when they are characterised by personality attacks, accusations of selling out or of being on the payroll of a different political formation every other weekend. Without them, it would not be possible to know if one were engaged in a soliloquy or a conversation. So, as part of overdue reforms, this column will from next week take a new direction, maybe to the delight of some of the fervid correspondents who have written in with colourful opinions of their own. Ten years ago, when this column began, an assistant minister, who is now a Cabinet secretary, quoted sections of the column for its literal meaning in a public statement in defence of the President at Parliament Buildings. My horror was beyond words. One reader wrote back soon after, “I have read all your pieces for the past six to seven years. I like your sense of humour. I personally can decipher and read the sarcasm in your new column. These people are of the opinion that you have crossed the line, and betrayed them. You have actually earned more foes than friends. Others say than ‘money has been poured’ and you are being used by the powers that be. You may be way ahead of most readers. They are simply not on the same page with you.” It is difficult to convince so many people that the only pay received for what is written here is the contracted sum from the Nation Media Group: “I like your flirting with your JAP (Jubilee Alliance Party) party. How much do they pay you to pamper them? You really beat those guys calling themselves digitally press at State House, Why don’t you take a PR job then? If you’re doing this job for free, then you are losing to mint millions big time!” Because satire is largely interested in power, much of this column’s focus has been on the government, to the chagrin of quite a few. Not all readers are a nasty piece of work. There are many who sent in a single word of encouragement hastily typed on their mobile device, and others who take time to write in properly. Through all these, the sub-editors are the elves that work unseen silently through the night, understanding the joke before it is complete, and placing a singing headline that captures the contradictions of our various existences. They are the unsung heroes of journalism — and I should know because I did my time in that slave pit. kwamchetsi@formandcontent.co.ke  