For the first time in a long time, national examinations were this year free of cheating. Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i has been credited with working hard to achieve this feat. He led from the front the battle to rid the country of the tragic malaise of exam cheating and corruption. I would like to describe Dr Matiang’i’s leadership philosophy as “my turn to serve”. This is in stark contrast to the hateful “my turn to eat” and its colourless cousin, “my turn to survive”, that characterise much of Kenyan public life. Kenyans in the past few months have also recognised the work of Central Bank Governor Patrick Njoroge, who fits the mould of “my turn to serve”, having restored confidence in banking after customers were exposed to anguish following the collapse of several banks. For his efforts, the governor has faced threats calculated to frustrate him. The complaints are veiled in lawsuits designed to protect the interests of people who now realise that they have to play by the rules or drown. The legal suits are clearly the machinations of selfish and corrupt characters, who are bent on maintaining an archaic dog-eat-dog paradigm that has benefited only a few. Dr Matiang’i and Dr Njoroge have withstood criticism to carry on with their work. What drives them? In trying to understand people who focus on service and the greater common good and those only interested in taking care of their selfish and narrow individual interests, Richard Barrett in his 2010 book, The New Leadership Paradigm, suggested that human beings have seven levels of consciousness. HUMAN DESIRESAt the three lowest levels of consciousness, human beings seek to satisfy their physical needs. They are only concerned with how much money they can make at every opportunity. This explains the obsession with making money at all costs, even through corruption. Such people are never satisfied with the amount of money they accumulate. The individual is also obsessed with belonging to a group or community and this may explain the obsession with my tribe, my clan, my people. The individual is also assailed with self-esteem issues and feeling good about themselves, which explains the often manic obsession with titles and accumulation of wealth and the status symbols that go with it in order to distinguish oneself from the less endowed masses. At the other end of the spectrum is the individual focused on service. Such people are at the top three levels of consciousness and seek to find meaning in their lives. GOOD WORK SIRThey do this by focusing on making a difference through collaborating with others. They devote their lives to selfless service for the greater good of others. Dr Matiang’i and Dr Njoroge, “my turn to serve” leaders, clearly demonstrate these top three levels of consciousness. Their critics and related opportunists display the three low levels of consciousness described by Richard Barrett. It is our duty to nurture those who want to serve. We must work to vanquish from our midst the selfish ones with narrow self-interest to enable the nation to prosper for the benefit of the common good. I salute Dr Matiang’i and Dr Njoroge. They have made us proud. Dr Mwangi is managing director, Centre for Personal Leadership. drcaesarmwangi@gmail.com  