Elders from the minority Boni community who live in Lamu County have said they have nothing to celebrate after 53 years of Kenya’s independence. Addressing journalists at Bar’goni Village Mondays as Kenya celebrated the 53rd Jamhuri Day, the elders said their only hope is for the government to remember them and intervene in the many unresolved issues involving Boni land. Mr Doza Diza, the Boni Council of Elders’ spokesman expressed disappointment that the government has not fully recognised the community as Kenyans like other minority groups. He said for the past 53 years, the government has not done anything to pull the Boni community out of the myriad of challenges and historical injustices that they have been facing. He said they have never been accorded land ownership rights while the rest of Kenyans are enjoying the same. “Yes, it is the 53rd Jamhuri Day celebrations but for us, we don’t have anything to celebrate. "As a community, the stigma, the discrimination and unfairness projected towards us has been something we have learnt to accept and live with. “We live like squatters and no single government has done anything about it. No single Boni in Lamu owns land or has been given a title deed. We are not happy about this,” said Mr Doza. EQUALITY CAMPAIGN They challenged the government to prove its equality campaign by ensuring they acquire land rights and other benefits like the rest of Kenyans. However, the elders have lauded the government for the efforts to improve security in their villages in the last one year following frequent Al-Shabaab raids. The Boni are largely hunters and gatherers and have for decades depended on the Boni Forest for survival. However, the forest is under military operation dubbed Operation Linda Boni by the Kenya Defence Forces (KDF) and, as such, has been declared a no-go zone. This has effectively locked out the community from their only source of survival. “Since the operation began, our lives have never been the same. In as much as we appreciate the return of peace and calm due to the operation, we urge them to allow us to access the forest so us to be able gather fruits, wild honey and also hunt since that’s what we entirely depend on,” said Mr Adan Musa of Pandanguo Village.  