When a light truck recently exploded at Karai in Naivasha, a photograph of a fuel tanker engulfed in flames quickly hit social media and went viral. Most people believed that it had caused the horrific accident. Kenyans were livid. They queried, rightly so, the wisdom of allowing the tanker to travel at night and use the wrong road. Turns out this was a fake image. This is not the first time such misleading information and images have been passed off as factual. Misinformation, by design or default, is as old as society. And, politicians, businesses, governments, celebrities, and brands have all borne the brunt of fake news and propaganda. We have been silent about the sins of misinformation even though it has caused pain and loss. Then someone questioned Facebook’s role in relaying fake news that might have swayed the outcome of the recent election in the US. And boom! Suddenly, the world is interrogating fake news with vigour. Mrs Hillary Clinton, the Democratic candidate in the US presidential election, decried the way false news and propaganda against her spread. FACT-CHECKING The reality of the impact of fake news is beginning to come into perspective. Fingers have been pointed at Facebook for providing a podium for misinformation. Mark Zuckerberg, the Facebook chief executive, first denied that his platform may have abated the sin but later asked for the public’s support to root out fake news. Google said it would start to mark news as “fact-checked” on Google News. Indeed, one of the most serious threats to modern society might not be nuclear bombs, but this type of perverted news. It is a malaise that has exploded, thanks to the Internet, and now threatens to kill faith in democracy, fire chauvinism, and thrust our world into anarchy. Yet information and communication are an inherent part of a functional society. For such information to be useful, its truthfulness and fairness should be beyond reproach. Information, false or factual, no doubt is power, hence the maxim that those who control the narratives rule the world. Complex information industries such as mass media are regulated to preclude abuse and exploitation of the masses. GRAVE EFFECTS That is why any professional actor in the information industry is ingrained with the philosophical rigours that appreciate and espouse ethics. Equally, statutes that offer rebates to victims of misinformation meticulously regulate the formal information industry. However, the online realm is different. It is slippery, brutish, complex, and difficult to regulate. Indeed, while the traditional mass media filters information through the gatekeeping process, this nuanced censure is alien to the lackeys of fake news who exploit the ubiquity and near-anonymity that the Internet offers. In fact, it is their deliberate intention to misinform. Thanks to the Internet, the fake news realm is thriving. Indeed, here, lies are engineered and spread on a dizzying scale. This deceptive information has monumental impact on perceptions, attitudes, and judgment. Sadly, even fairly intelligent folks still hold as gospel truth all information made available to them without interrogating it. It is worse in this age as society largely sources its news from social media. And, sadly, this demographic lacks the time, emotional, or rational wherewithal to analyse and sift the real from the fake. VIGILANTIronically, the Internet had for long been hailed as the great market square for intercourse of ideas that could forge and nurture democracy. Its transcendental design was to afford multiplicity of voices. This made the internet look chic, even messianic, in the quest of free expression and, by extension, democracy. But rogue actors are holding hostage the child of enlightenment. And as Kenya gears up for the next General Election, I can bet that different factions are sharpening their online weaponry to disgrace their rivals. Folks, brace yourselves for a gruelling online warfare. That is why political candidates and the State should invest in vigilance of the cyberspace. Such surveillance is critical to flag erroneous news and offer quick correction to stem anarchy. BLEAK FUTUREAlthough in Kenya information does not necessarily sway whom we vote for, misinformation is likely to enhance ethnic chauvinism and hatred. And as Mrs Clinton noted, what happens online can easily have an impact in the real world. We certainly do not want chaos in our country. In the West, where primacy is given to factual information, a retinue of fact-checkers has emerged to flag fake news. Not so much here. Perhaps the rise of citizen fact-checkers an help. If we continue to allow merchants of lies to reign, then we are headed for hard times. Mr Wamanji is a public relations and communication expert. ewamanji@yahoo.co.uk  