Security will be heightened around the Coast where thousands of international and local tourists are expected to throng various holiday destinations to celebrate Christmas and New Year. Coast Regional Coordinator Nelson Marwa told Nation that elaborate security measures were in place to ensure Kenyans and foreign visitors enjoy in peace. Mr Marwa said areas where revellers are expected to frequent throughout the festive season will be adequately secured by police officers in uniform and civilian clothes. “We are moving away from fighting fire to preventing it. This time round, we have made different security arrangements that Kenyans have not seen before,” added the regional coordinator. He said security committees from the six coastal counties had also been directed to review their security approaches and employ new tactics towards enhancing safety. “We have analysed every aspect of the security challenges facing our six counties. We looked into security matters in Tana River, Lamu, Taita-Taveta, Diani and Kwale,” added Mr Marwa. He said KDF and other security apparatus would continue to be vigilant along areas bordering Somalia under Operation Linda Boni to ensure Al-Shabaab terrorists do not cross into the country. The regional coordinator also said traffic police officers would ensure rules and regulations are adhered to, especially on the Mombasa-Nairobi Highway to deal with errant motorists and curb carnage. At the same time, the government will shut down all strip clubs in Mombasa County during the festive season. County commissioner Evans Achoki said the clubs, which have a tendency of allowing minors access, are being investigated. Speaking at the Kenya School of Government during a workshop for Council of Imams, Islamic Preachers of Kenya, youth and women representatives, Mr Achoki said security agencies are cracking down on nightclubs and strip clubs allowing minors access. He said he had received numerous complaints from the public and religious leaders. During this festive season, most clubs, especially in Mtwapa, will be holding parties. Bishop Jackson Kosgei of Worldwide Gospel Church of Kenya and the chairman of the film classification board asked police to arrest all those using minors to film pornography.  