Moshi is a lush green little town on the lower slopes of Mt Kilimanjaro, characterised by wide, shady avenues and stunning vistas of the majestic mountain complete with snowcapped tips. Driving from Nairobi at a comfortable speed takes an average of six hours with countryside scenery and miles of open tarmac roads leading through the countless hills which litter the landscape beyond the border. For how far removed the town is, it is not short of establishments set up to cater to a far wider clientele than just the local community. There is a fairly large number of expatriates living in Moshi and the tourism industry has forced business people in the service industry to diversify so as to meet a wider demand. Among these is Maembe Cafe and Lounge which is situated in a converted residential bungalow in the ironically named affluent suburb of Shanty Town. One has to drive through a quiet street lined on either side with beautiful Jacaranda trees to form a grove, before getting to this property where in stark contrast to many places in Nairobi, there is no heavy security presence at the gate, which is left open until the last customer leaves. In the sprawling yard, there are assorted gazebos scattered with mismatched tables and chairs and a small playground for children. Soft piped music can be heard through the gardens but there is little more evidence to show that ambience was a priority for the proprietors when they opened the place. What’s really nice is that there is handcrafted merchandise on sale whose proceeds go towards supporting a local health centre for vulnerable women. The menu at Maembe heavily features Swahili cuisine with curries and seasoned rice dishes as well as more continental offerings, steaks, sandwiches and burgers. Worried about the freshness of the prawns which I got a sudden craving for on seeing them on the menu, I asked to go to the kitchen to have a look and my request was granted with a friendly tour of the kitchen where I verified their freshness. The prawns came in a spicy coconut sauce and much to the disappointment of the chef, I switched the rice accompaniment for chips. My family ordered everything from a standard BLT sandwich to the oh-so-boring fish and chips and in the end, my choice was the obvious winner, with everyone fawning over me so I could give them another spoon of my curry. The balance of spices was perfect with the coconut tempering down what would have otherwise been a burning mix of cayenne, ginger, turmeric and black pepper. I did not need to add salt, and the pink flesh of my shelled prawns was firm to the touch with a great consistency all the way through. I forgot to ask where their supply of sea food comes from, but it did not really matter as I had such a delightful meal despite the odds. I dare not forget to mention the two ice-cold Kilimanjaro lagers which made my experience all the better!   Packed with rich flavour and spice, Ethiopian fare is not for every tongue.