MILAN AC Milan's Gianluigi Donnarumma moved a virtual step closer to taking over as Italy's number one goalkeeper after Azzurri legend Gianluigi Buffon said he is likely to retire in 2018. Juventus shot-stopper Buffon earned his 167th cap in a goalless friendly with Germany last month — when Donnarumma played the second half to make his second Azzurri appearance — to pull level with retired Spain legend and fellow goalkeeper Iker Casillas. Buffon is now just 17 caps behind world record-holder Ahmed Hassan of Egpyt (184), a tally he may just overtake depending on how Italy fare at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. In comments to Premium Sport, Buffon said: "My idea is to leave football as a player after the 2018 World Cup. I'm pretty sure of it." Buffon said there was "only a remote possibility" he could extend his long and storied career beyond that date. Given the emergence of Donnarumma, a 17-year-old who pushed Diego Lopez aside at AC Milan last season to become the seven-time European champions' number one between the sticks, Buffon's announcement comes as little surprise. He was largely expected to retire from the game after the 2018 World Cup, where Donnarumma — now in his second season in Italy's top flight — could showcase his skills to a global audience. Buffon recently became a father for the third time and last month hinted he could go on to coach Italy. "A coaching role and all that it entails on a daily basis wouldn't appeal to me," Buffon said in an interview with Corriere della Sera. "But I wouldn't exclude a national team coaching role: I would still be involved in the game but have some freedom to dedicate myself to other things." Having won almost all of club and international football's goalkeeping awards and played a crucial role in Italy's 2006 World Cup triumph, the only trophy missing from Buffon's cabinet is the Champions League title. Juve came close to a third title in 2015 only to be outclassed 3-1 in Berlin by Barcelona. Juventus face Porto in the last 16 of the competition in February looking to qualify for their second quarter-final in three years having been ousted from the knockout phase by Bayern Munich. Earlier in the campaign Buffon saved a penalty in a precious 1-0 win at Lyon and although he had harsh words for his teammates afterwards, he seems resigned to his fate whatever it may be. "I believe in meritocracy, so if I deserve to win (the Champions League) I will. Otherwise, I won't."  