Any initiative that helps to improve the odds of the country holding peaceful elections is to be welcomed and the Kenya Private Sector Alliance deserves credit for bringing leaders together over the last few days. However, it is essential that the whole initiative goes beyond mere rhetoric. As some of the presenters noted, the words and actions of politicians matter especially in Kenya’s ethnicised political set-up. MPs also take their cue in the kind of words they utter on the campaign platform. It is important, therefore, that the top leaders, including the President, Deputy President and the main leaders of the Opposition, find a way to communicate to audiences in a way that does not involve fiery, personalised attacks that inevitably stir tension. It goes without saying that a peaceful election will greatly benefit the country. Repeated research has shown that every time an election or referendum comes around, economic output in Kenya falls sharply. Agricultural productivity also dips, a fact which affects millions of Kenyans who depend on the sector for a livelihood. The same thing does not happen in other countries such as South Africa, Senegal, Ghana or Tanzania. That is simply because in those countries, they have cultivated a culture of peaceful elections. After the largely incident-free election in 2013, Kenya would achieve a major milestone if the next election is held without bloodshed. To attain this goal, all players must pull together. The leaders of the Opposition may or may not have been justified in refusing to take part in the talks at the Coast over the last few days. Regardless of whether there is merit in their claims that Kepsa favours the government, the leadership of the private sector would be wise to reach out to the leadership of the Opposition and tackle their concerns. Nobody gains if the election is marked by violence. By contrast, everybody stands to benefit from a successful and peaceful election. It is essential that all stakeholders work towards this goal. To start with, the selection panel working on the constitution of the commissioners of the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission must urgently improve its performance and get that team in place swiftly. All other players, particularly the politicians that wield so much influence among their supporters, must also pull together and aim to break with the past.  