Taita Taveta County is set to benefit from Sh751. 7 million from Equalisation Fund in the current financial year. County Commissioner Kula Hache, addressing residents during Jamhuri Day celebrations attended by Governor John Mruttu at Mwatate Primary School grounds on Monday, said the government, through the fund, would roll out projects in the whole county soon. Some of the projects to be implemented in Taveta, Wundanyi, Voi and Mwatate sub counties include water projects, road construction and improvement of health services, said Ms Hache. “The funds will be distributed equally in all the four sub counties,” the county commissioner added. Each sub county will get sh187.5 million, she said. Construction of Kenya Medical Training Colleges in Voi and Taveta will receive Sh45 million and Sh150 million respectively. Upgrade of Wundanyi township roads will be done at a cost of Sh300 million. In addition, construction of Voi township roads will also be done at a cost of Sh143 million. Among water projects to be implemented are Chawia/Mwachabo (Sh40 million), drilling of boreholes in Bughuta (Sh13 million) and Taveta-Lumi water project (Sh8million). Mr Mruttu urged the Kenya National Union of Nurses (Knun) to ask its members to resume work. He said that Kenyans are suffering due to the countrywide strike. He said the Council of Governors, the ministry of Health and Knun officials had agreed that wthe nurses resume work. “Some Kenyans cannot afford to pay for treatment in private health facilities. The striking health workers should know that some of the suffering Kenyans are their own people,” he said. Nurses from the county were among those who defied calls to resume work on Monday with operations at Moi County Referral Hospital in Voi remaining at stand still as the health workers boycotted work for the second. In Mwatate sub county hospital, the situation was the same with only a handful of patients who had turned up to seek treatment. The county’s Kenya National union Of Nurses secretary general, Boniface Mrashui, told the Nation that the union’s governing council had ordered its members not to report to work until the deal signed by a section of union officials was discussed by the council. “I am currently attending a meeting in Nairobi which has been convened by the council. We will know whether we will go back to work or not after this meeting,” he said Monday. County executive for Health Services Mr Gifton Mkaya said the county government will not punish the nurses for not reporting to work. “This is a national issue so we will wait for them to push the national government for their issues to be implemented,” he said.  