As the country comes to terms with the outcome of this year’s Kenya Certificate of Secondary Education examination results released on Thursday, one of the critical challenges the country must confront is the huge numbers of students who will be locked out of higher education. An analysis of the statistics indicates that about 300,000 candidates scored grades D and below. More depressing is the fact some 33,399 candidates obtained grade E compared to 5,350 the previous year. The first challenge here is that so many students completed 12 years of formal schooling without acquiring basic knowledge and skills. Matters are more distressing when one examines their raw marks, where it emerged some scored less than 10 per cent in some subjects. This is a manifestation of a failed education system, where teachers hardly teach, learners do not do their work while the quality assurance role is dysfunctional. Second and more fundamentally, is the challenge of what to do with this mass of youngsters who cannot progress to the next level of education. Entry point to the low-cadre professions is D+ and that means these candidates have absolutely few options. And the complete picture emerges when we consider that more than 480,000 candidates missed university places. Ideally, they should join middle-level colleges. However, in our perverted conception, we killed most of them in the frenzy to create universities, leaving few alternatives for those with equally good grades such as C- or C. Paradoxically, the expansion of universities led to duplication of programmes, especially in the humanities that are easy to mount, and flooded the market with unemployable graduates. The immediate question that Education Cabinet Secretary Fred Matiang’i and his team must address is: What should we do with these youngsters who cannot progress to another level. Where should they go? Should they repeat or join youth polytechnics, most of which are in a sorry state? Are parents prepared for other options? Are we ready to handle a pool of ill-equipped and unemployable youth? Fixing the examination chaos was one step but we must also deal with the unpleasant questions.  