Stephen Otieno, an inmate at the Narok GK Prison, has just one wish: that the government allows him to wed his fiancée Diana Mundi at the correctional facility. “If the Government of Kenya could allow me to be the first prisoner to wed while in prison, I would really appreciate that,” Otieno opens up as he cuddles Diana. The feeling is mutual, going by Diana’s body language and words. “I miss him, I am always counting hours, days, months, and years. It is hell for me living without him, I am waiting for that day when he will be set free, I will show him I really missed him,” she murmurs, tightly holding onto her man’s arm. Occasionally, the couple throws caution to the wind and kiss passionately, their deep affection for each other clearly evident. “It has been one year since I fondled and kissed a woman,” Otieno offers. Otieno is serving time at the prison after being found guilty of forgery in 2014 and sentenced to a three-year jail term without the option of a fine. He was found in possession of Sh100,000 fake banknotes.  He is due for release later next year. But this year, Christmas has come early for Otieno and the other inmates at the facility after they were granted the rare opportunity of spending a day with their loved ones – what in prison circles is called Remote Parenting Day. FEASTING DAY The prisoners and remandees were in high spirits as they chatted heartily with their family members, friends and relatives. It was a day of feasting, too, as the visitors were allowed to bring in various delicacies from fried chicken to roast meat, chapati and whatever else the inmates craved for. “I have been here for the last one year, and this has never happened before. I feel great after meeting my family,” another inmate, Fred Nampaso, says. Nampaso is serving time at the facility after being found guilty of obtaining money by false pretence. His wife, Evaline Nampaso, first-born daughter Natasha and second-born son Fred have made his Christmas this year, he says. Nampaso, who is yet to complete his three-year sentence, thanks the prison authorities for organising the get-together. His wife Evaline on her part says the family is grateful that it was accorded the chance to see him.  