Hi Kitoto, I got into a relationship with a university woman to whom I lied that I was in the same year. I also lied to her about the course I was doing just to create a good impression so that she could accept me, which she did. Along the way I realised she was the kind of woman I had been looking for, so I decided to tell her the truth. When I did, she became bitter and stopped seeing me, taking my calls, or replying to my text messages. It is really tough and painful for me, especially since we are going on a long holiday and we live far apart, and I can’t see her in person to work things out. I love her very much and would not want to lose her. What do I do? Hi,This woman loved you for who you projected yourself to be, which means she fell in love with an illusion. The lies you told might have looked innocent, but they did not give you the opportunity to find out the consequences. Things initially worked for you but when she found out the truth, the same lie you used became your enemy. My take is that: Trust is a virtue that is vital in any romantic relationship. Trust must be cultivated and embraced. Finding out that your partner took advantage of you by deceiving you can cause great emotional pain. Learning that you lied might be one of the hardest and most difficult issues she has to deal with. This raises many questions about the integrity of the relationship. As a result, it has affected the trust between you and made it impossible for the two of you to be close. Lies create a barrier that draws people who were once in love apart. Using deception might look great initially, whether it comes to light or remains hidden for some time. However, in one way or another, it creates distance in a relationship. When you lie, it creates a feeling of guilt, thereby creating fear, anxiety and some discomfort. TRUTH HURTS When you lied to her, it hurt not just her, but also those close to her who also found out that you had lied to her. When we lie, we create a barrier that hurts communication and, ultimately, intimacy. In relationships, lies breed lies. Someone once said that lies keep growing, that they never happen singly, and that the first lie we tell needs more lies to support it. So, when we refuse to confront such lies immediately, they snowball. The fact that lies hurt when exposed should teach you to value telling the truth. When we fall into the habit of telling lies, it leads us to a vicious circle that is extremely difficult to free oneself from. People who tell lies seem to thrive on telling more lies in order to survive. Once you tell a lie, you usually have to lie again to cover up the first lie. Thank goodness you chose to break the circle and live in truth. What you should realise is that the truth also hurts, particularly when you have to put things right – and you feel even worse. There is a general belief that relationships are hard and complicated. But there are also those who believe there is nothing to relationships. DIVERSITY Still, do you have what it takes to keep a relationship going? What really does it take to be in a steady, mutually beneficial and satisfying relationship? For most people, these questions could be unimportant. However, it must take something for some relationships to last, and for others to quickly fizzle out. A quote by an unknown author says, “Good relationships don’t just happen. They take time, patience, and two people who truly want to be together”. Significantly, the amount of effort you put into making a relationship stand both the good and bad times in life is dependent on what the other person means to you. Marriage is a journey and an adventure that calls for the spirit of expectancy from those involved. No journey or experience is deemed to have been adventurous if there were no moments of fun, faith, suspense, hopefulness, and sometimes, even loss of heart. But it is through such adventure that we grow to love each other more and look forward to even greater adventure. Without adventure, any marriage or relationship will be boring. Surprisingly, it is how we embrace the adventurous moments that seems to leave us in suspense, surprised, and at times exhausted with pain. I would, therefore, say that, many of us miss out on opportunities for growth and expansion in our lives because of the way we react to such moments. I am convinced that it is the diversity within a relationship that offers the greatest potential for exploration and growth. A couple that is dating with the intention of getting married, or that is married, must seek to discover each other’s strengths, weaknesses and potential. What is it in that scares you the most? It is notable that in some cases, people are initially attracted to what they fight later in marriage, thereby missing out on the need for that difference to cause growth in them. ENDURANCE I would say that knowledge of what you are getting into gives you the necessary understanding to acquire the skills needed to achieve success, build the needed endurance, and focus on the promised goal. Through this journey, knowing what you need to drop helps lighten the load you carry along. We should not allow the baggage from the past to push us into a corner to wallow in self-pity, grumbling or complaining. These are not the factors that promote growth. Instead, they drive a relationship towards indifference. So what we need is hope which, with a bit more effort, can help us overcome that hurdle. And as any scout knows, adventure moves us from one challenge to another, thereby testing and building our expectancy and endurance. In the end, the endurance builds perseverance in us and matures us. What we are willing to sacrifice for must be equal to the value and love we have for it. Love must be about taking a stand for the one you love, to the extent that you are willing to risk your life for them. That is what marriage and friendship are all about. No amount of disclosure will be a guarantee that you know all there is to know about the other person. Although knowing your future partner is key, there comes a time in the relationship when you have to move by faith. Some of these moments are never deliberate. For instance, you might be aware of your partner’s habitual forgetfulness, but you might never know what causes it or how to make them change. TRUE LOVEInstead of living in disappointment or with a judgmental attitude, you could adopt ways of helping them grow, or to make changes themselves in that area. And in areas where they cannot improve, making sacrifices for them becomes key. After all, we also have areas in our lives where others have to put up with us, where we also need their support. Besides, what should count is whether we see in the person enough core values that we love and subscribe to and make us desire to stand with them no matter what. Knowing that we are not angels ourselves, and that no one ever marries one, should make us sober and allow us to give each other the grace and opportunity to make mistakes and grow. Relating to a fully grown adult is not easy. People tend to adopt certain habits and ways of doing things early in life. In adulthood, some habits are so ingrained that it is difficult for some people to discard them completely. What becomes important is whether we are in a position where we are willing to be as gracious to others as we would like them to be to us. The big question in marriage, and relationships in general, becomes, “Why should I make a sacrifice?” In fact, we end up making love and sacrifice so trivial to the extent we ask, “Why should I make sacrifices for you if you never make any for me?” True love makes a sacrifice regardless, because of the value a person sees and the goal they would love to achieve. What we value we treasure and will be willing to make sacrifices for. GET ASSISTANCE So, to fully know whether we have what it takes, we need to check on what our inner absolutes are. Our inner qualities reveal a lot about why we go for the things we do in life. Some might be driven by greed and selfishness and not pure devotion. This questions the deeper motives regarding why we pick the mates we do, why we behave the way we do before certain people, and why we make the sacrifices we do. We all have heard of someone saying that they are hanging on to their marriage for the sake of the kids. Some women stay and allow themselves to be abused simply because they fear that their kids will not have a father if they leave. So when should you stay in a marriage because you hope, and are willing, to take the risk of seeking the necessary help for that alcoholic husband because of the good you once saw in him and believe that, with support, it can be reignited?  