Forty-two governors have been lined up for Head of State commendation on Jamhuri Day for their dedicated and outstanding service to the nation. However, the list seen by Nation did not include Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto, Kivutha Kibwana of Makueni, Kilifi’s Amason Kingi, Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga and his Mandera counterpart Ali Roba. The Council of Governors nominated 42 of its members for decoration with the coveted Elder of the Order of the Golden Heart (EGH) medals, citing the various roles they have played either as county bosses or before they assumed office. Kiambu Governor William Kabogo has been recommended for steering his county to national and international recognition after digitising records and automating revenue collection. The organisation of data from eight former municipalities through a single platform resulted in the growth of local revenue from Sh1 billion in the 2013/2014 financial year to close to Sh2.6 billion in 2015/2016. The county government constructed 21 mother and child health clinics, a 400-bed reproductive health unit at Thika Level Five Hospital and a solar-powered health facility in Githurai. Nyeri Governor Nderitu Gachagua’s recommendation is based on exemplary leadership and service demonstrated in agriculture, education and infrastructure. “As the chairman of the Agriculture Committee of the Council of Governors he has worked closely and tirelessly with the State Department of Agriculture and other agricultural stakeholders,” the recommendation reads. Murang’a Governor Mwangi wa Iria is recommended for steering the revival of dairy farming as well as being instrumental in providing health care centre like a renal unit and eye and dental unit in Muranga Hospital. PROCUREMENT ENTITY Laikipia’s Joshua Irungu has been nominated on the basis of awards his administration has won as the best procurement entity, the best in tax compliance and the best in conservation agriculture. Mr Peter Munya of Meru has been recommended for his service to the nation as an assistant minister in the past. Nyandarua’s Waithaka Mwangi initiated a ban on the 90kg bag of potatoes, established a medical college and oversaw construction and upgrading of nursery school classes to permanent structures. Governor Cornel Rasanga of Siaya is recommended for pioneering and establishing the Public Procurement Administrative Review Board as the secretary and manager. Prof Chepkwony Paul Kiprono of Kericho, a researcher, scholar, inventor and innovator with six US patents, one Japanese patent, one Kenyan patent and one South African patent in pharmaceutical chemistry. He invented a herbal-based immune booster, Maximum 1, which is registered in Kenya. As the first CoG Finance committee chairman, Wajir Governor Ahmed Abdullahi ensured that resources for devolved functions were transferred. Narok Governor Samuel Tunai is a member of various schools boards in his county and a founder of Mara conservation. Also in the list of commendation is Mombasa Governor Hassan Ali Joho for spearheading the improvement of the county’s health by renovating children’s and women’s wards. He has also ensured the improvement of traffic management in spite of challenges that face the town as it was developed without considering population growth.  