Jubilee Party has constituted a three-member team to receive complaints about the recent election of interim officials. Speaking after receiving a petition from Nyeri aspirants, the head of the party’s secretariat Raphael Tuju said the tribunal to be unveiled tomorrow will address complaints from all the counties. The Nyeri delegation travelled to the party headquarters in Nairobi in 20 public service vehicles to lodge their complaints. “We decided to storm the offices so that they can take our complaints seriously,” said Erick Makara, a county rep aspirant. They said they wanted new polls held. “Two politicians purporting to represent the aspirants together with the incumbent MPs presented a list to party secretariat claiming that we made a unanimous decision,” he added. In Narok, the high stakes for the Jubilee Party ticket played out at the weekend. The elections divided the county leadership down the middle, with Governor Samuel Tunai leading one faction and Narok West MP Patrick Ntutu, who is eyeing to unseat him, leading the other. The elections were delayed for hours as the Ntutu faction sought to convince Governor Tunai to agree to a backroom deal where the two leaders would draw a list of nine names each and impose the list on the county party membership. WIDER PARTICIPATION However, the governor, who addressed his supporters afterwards, said he refused to sanction the backroom deal, citing the need for transparency and wider participation of Narok leaders and aspirants as required by the Jubilee Party rules. The party regulations require that interim party officials should be elected by an electoral college of all MPs, MCAs, the governor and the senators and all aspirants for electoral positions who have duly registered and paid the aspirant fees. Consequently, the Mr Tunai camp carried the day after it later participated in the primaries at the proposed venue. In Nakuru, a major fallout is looming among members of the party after chaos rocked the elections. Some politicians led by Bahati MP Kimani Ngunjiri have now accused Deputy President William Ruto of using the elections to scheme for his 2022 presidential bid. The leaders claimed Mr Ruto was imposing leaders he plans to work with to achieve his political ambitions. Other party aspirants and supporters from Naivasha sub–county have already threatened to ditch the party, claiming they were short-changed. Former Naivasha MP Jayne Kihara said the election of former MP David Manyara as the county interim chairman was predetermined and that Naivasha was “short-changed” despite being the area with the highest number of registered voters.  Report by Joseph Wangui, George Sayagie, Joseph Openda, Eric Matara and Magdalene Wanja.  