BERLIN Poland captain Robert Lewandowski said Tuesday he was delighted to have extended his Bayern Munich contract by two years after signing a deal until June 30, 2021. The 28-year-old netted 42 goals for the Bundesliga champions last season in all competitions and German daily Bild estimates he has been rewarded with a new deal worth over 15 million euros ($15.9m) per year. "I am very pleased that the negotiations have come to a positive conclusion and I will be bound to FC Bayern for a few years," said Lewandowski."We have the same big goals." The target-man has scored 19 goals so far this season including two in the 5-0 win over Wolfsburg that sent Bayern back to the top of the Bundesliga at the weekend. Lewandowski joined Bayern in 2014 on a free contract from Borussia Dortmund. Since then he has scored 89 goals for Bayern in 122 matches, which includes scoring 58 times in 77 Bundesliga games. He was the Bundesliga's top scorer last season with 30 goals, having also won the award in 2013/14 with Dortmund when he scored 20 goals. Lewandowski has a market value of around 50 million euros. "He makes it look easy, he has brutally-good qualities," said team colleague Thomas Mueller, who often profits from playing just behind Lewandowski. Having reached the semi-finals of the Champions League for the last two seasons running with Bayern, Lewandowski has made no secret of his desire to win the European title with the Bavarians. He finished on the losing side for ex-club Dortmund when the Bavarian giants won the 2013 final in London. "There are new challenges facing us! Mia San Mia!," Lewandowski wrote on Twitter, quoting the Bayern's motto 'we are who we are'. The signature of the Poland hot-shot, who had been linked to Spanish giants Real Madrid in the past, is a significant milestone for Bayern, now with ten players all with a contract until 2020 or beyond. The club's official Twitter account gleefully posted: "Christmas is on December 13 at FC Bayern this year #Lewandowski #FCBXmas". "I'm happy we've secured the services of one of the world's best centre-forwards over the long term," said Bayern's chairman Karl-Heinz Rummenigge.Behind the scenes, Bayern had been working for months to secure Lewandowski's services. "He's one of the best strikers in the world, it's as simple as that," said Bayern coach Carlo Ancelotti. With Lewandowski's signature in the bag, Arjen Robben and Xabi Alonso are the only top names with a Bayern contract due to expire at the end of the season. Earlier on Tuesday, Lewandowski mocked the Ballon d'Or on Twitter after he finished only 16th in the voting as Cristiano Ronaldo won the award for a fourth time. He wrote "cabaret" then '@francefootball', who organise the award, followed by pictures of smiley faces crying with laughter on his Twitter account.   Robert Lewandowski has mocked the Ballon d'Or on Twitter after the Bayern Munich hot-shot finished only 16th in the voting.