Jubilee’s decision to force through amendments to the Election Laws Amendment Act 2016 seeks to re-introduce loopholes to allow their biggest constituency, “ghost voters”, back into the electoral process. Electronic voting has three key components that make up the integrated electoral system. BIOMETRIC VOTER REGISTRATION (BVR) This is where a voter’s biometrics (fingerprints, retina scan and other unique features) are used for registration. BVR kits are used for this exercise. Since the only requirement is capturing biometrics at this stage, it is obvious that no GSM network is necessary as Jubilee have been claiming. The reason Jubilee is against biometric registration is because it requires each and every voter to be physically present to get their biometrics taken. As a result, it would automatically exclude all ineligible and dead people from registration and thereby improve the integrity of the voter register. Is BVR registration appropriate for Africa? Nigeria, Senegal, Ghana, Namibia, and even Tanzania next door used biometrics to prepare their voter register. We all share similar characteristics with regards to electricity and rural populations. India is an Asian example. Is the time too short? Nigeria registered 73.5 million voters in 23 days. It was initially planned for 14 days. Ghana did 11 million people in 40 days. Both countries were facing election deadline issues. India registered 863 million voters with a million BVR kits in three months. We are seeking to register only eight million additional voters, comparatively, this ought to be a simple task. What’s the experience? In Nigeria, seven million fake voters came off the roll, and in Ghana 1.5 million were taken off. In both countries, Opposition victories came after voter roll integrity. Do we have enough machines? We have 8,000 machines for an expected 44,000 polling stations. If we decide to have one or two per polling station, then we are looking at 44,000 to 88,000 machines. Nigeria procured 100,000 units for 73.5 million voters and 120,000 voting centres. Ghana procured 7,000 for 23,000 centres with another 7,000 back up. Can we procure the equipment in time? Biometric machines are leased and shared everywhere. Nigeria has 100,000 BVR kits and EVID kits lying in a store. We lent Rwanda ours recently. Why not lease the kits from these countries? ELECTRONIC VOTER IDENTIFICATION (EVID) This happens on election day. It is when the EVID kits stationed at the polling stations are used to identify one’s fingerprints/retina scan/earlobe to verify that it is truly you who has turned up to vote. This prevents “ghosts” from voting as has been common practice in the past. In the 2013 General Election, it is the EVID component of electronic voting that failed, but how did it fail? (a) They were not fully charged and, therefore, were inoperable. (b) The biometrics captured earlier in the BVR kits were not configured into the EVID kits meaning that there were people who were not recognised. Is this reason enough to revert to manual identification? First, it is important to realise that not everybody who shows up on election day is a legitimate voter. Some never registered, others are underage and so on. RESULTS TRANSMISSION There are 1,300 polling stations identified by the Communication Authority of Kenya (CA) with insufficient GSM network coverage. Jubilee argues that this would make it difficult to transmit results electronically and, therefore, they want a manual back up for this transmission. (a) This same CA has Sh2 billion Universal Service Fund under its administration to ensure that all polling stations have GSM infrastructure. Why not use these eight months to set it up? (b) There were by-elections in Kalkol Ward, Turkana and Mosiro, Kajiado two months ago. These areas were found to have poor GSM network and the IEBC transmitted results using satellite. Why is Jubilee opposed to satellite transmission in these 1,300 polling stations? In total, we have 44,000 polling stations. (c) The new law requires the electronically transmitted results to be posted on a public web portal for transparency. This is what Jubilee doesn’t want. The author is the Chief Executive Officer at the CORD Secretariat.  