My plunge into politics came in 1983, when the snap General Election was called. I joined the race for the Kitui North parliamentary seat but performed dis­mally in a race won by the popular incumbent, Philip Manandu. In my youthful naivety, I thought my academic qualifications gave me enough advantage over Manandu, a man with little education who came from my mother’s clan, “the Akitondo” . Many thought I was out of my mind to even contemplate challenging Manandu. In a constituency that had never in its history witnessed a candidate garner more than 6,000 votes, Manandu had, in the 1979 election, turned the tables on the incumbent, Dr Justus Kitonga and polled 15,000 votes (Weekly Review, May 31, 1991, p 6). “Manandu, a little known individual prior to his election victory, had managed the impossible when he beat political heavyweights such as the Central Organisa­tion of Trade Union (COTU) secretary general, Mr Justus Mulei. He became so powerful that many losers attributed his victory and invincibility to witchcraft.” Thus, when I announced my bid in 1983, local observers thought I was naive and, as expected, Manandu easily recaptured his seat, again with over 15,000 votes. I  came in fourth after a campaign involving travelling a constituency comparable in geographical size to the entire former Central province. I ran a cash-strapped but energetic campaign at the heart of which were two young volunteers — Paul Musili Wambua and his friend Caxstone Munywoki. The two were then students at the University of Nairobi. Wambua was later to be my law partner and family friend. Wambua’s first contact with me was through the media when he saw a picture of me in the Daily Nation after I had won the Cyprus scholarship. He was in Form Three and he says I inspired him to study law at the university. At the time, the University of Nairobi had been closed in the wake of the 1982 failed coup by Kenya Air Force rebels. KEEPING BUSY Wambua remembers how he joined my campaign: “One of my friends and college mates, Caxstone Munywoki, told me that we could keep ourselves busy for the entire 14 months we were home. After the coup had been contained, the government called a snap General Election in 1983. Munywoki, who hailed from the same district as myself, suggested that we support and campaign for a young lawyer who was interested in running for the Kitui North parliamentary seat. The young lawyer turned out to be my role model, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka. Munywoki argued that we should support him because he was young like us and would articulate our issues and problems. It then occurred to me that this was the same Kalonzo I had read about and again my interest was raised and I said, ‘this is the man we should support’.” FANATICAL FOLLOWING Wambua and Munywoki pulled many people into my support team. One of them was Mzee Musyoka Muindu, an uncle of Munywoki. One day, he had just pulled out a chair to sit down in Muuluko Pub at Mbondoni Shopping Centre, 15 kilometres west of Mwingi town, when two university students approached him. I followed closely behind them. There was a sigh of relief when we saw him, “We are lucky Mzee is here,” Wambua said joyfully signalling me to move closer. It was Munywoki who spoke: “This is Mzee Musyoka Muindu”, he said stretching his hand towards him. Muindu was sure he had seen me somewhere but he could not recall where. After shaking hands, he was told that the young man was a lawyer, Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka. Muindu recalls that first meeting: “Caxstone told me that Musyoka wanted to vie for the Kitui North parliamentary seat and they wanted to enlist my support. I immediately remembered where I had seen the young man’s face. I had seen his picture in Taifa Leo only the previous week. I also remembered having discussed the candidature of this young man who wanted to contest against Philip Manandu who was enjoying a fanatical following in Mwingi. I recall a com­ment I made that caused laughter among my listeners when 1 said there was a mad man in every market place and in this case it was Musyoka. I felt sorry for him since I knew he stood no chance against Manandu.”   ABRUPT REQUEST “This man wants you to support him through political mobilisation in this area,” Munywoki finally said after pulling out a chair and sitting down beside the old man. Wambua and I remained standing. After gathering some courage, I eventu­ally spoke: “Yes Mzee. As you have just heard my name is Kalonzo Musyoka “ni muusini na mwivwa kwa akitondo” (This is a Kamba form of self-introduction where one says his or her name, clan, mother’s and father’s clans). “I come from Muuna Village, Tseikuru in Kyuso Division. Your nephew is a friend of mine and they have asked me to vie for Kitui North parliamentary seat. I accepted because you as parents denied yourselves many good things to educate us. We should also reciprocate by taking up challenging leadership roles which will make you reap the sweet fruits of your labour. If you can support me ‘ava’ (Kamba for express­ing humility to an elder) we can realize that dream together.” After listening to me, Muindu said: I have heard you. Give me some time to think about your request. I am also a civil servant and I may not get the time required for political mobilization.” I promised him that I would personally find a way of securing leave from his place of work. We had actually ambushed Muindu with our visit and the abrupt request. He had not even ordered his beer when we arrived. When Munywoki and Wambua ordered four beers for him, he politely declined the offer. He told them he was only meeting someone briefly and would soon be on his way: “I’ll take the beer next time,” he told them. We left after assuring him that I would visit him at his home the following day. At exactly 9:30pm the following day, as he sat outside his house in the moonlight to enjoy the breeze, Muindu was startled by the sound of our car. It pulled up outside his compound and out came the three young men he had met in the bar the previous day. After exchanging greetings, I told him that with the elections so close, there was little time to waste. I wanted things to move with speed and the campaign team to set up all logistical strategies. Tomorrow, we shall go to Kitui (Kitui was the administrative headquarters of Mwingi which was then only a Division) to apply for your leave. 'WEAK CANDIDATE' Muindu, then a driver with the Ministry of Public Works, wondered how on earth he would get approval for leave knowing that he had completed his annual leave some five months previously. He was also reluctant to engage his time and energy in what would amount to a futile exercise of supporting a weak candidate who clearly had no chance against the popular incumbent. When Manandu coughed, his supporters, especially women, would wail in frenzy. That man was popular. Vilivu, as Kambas pronounced his first name, was a crowd puller. People loved him just because of the way he would verbally handle volatile political situations. He had a way with the Kamba language, and none of his opponents could match his eloquence in the expression and delivery of metaphors and proverbs. Muindu wondered how, as a young man who had spent most of his life in school, I would fare against Manandu. But his gut feeling led him towards me and my small team. The following day, we went to the district headquarters to apply for his leave. Muindu was both amused and bewildered when he saw the deference with which the then Kitui District Commissioner, Justimore Mghasi, handled me. Within five minutes, his leave had been granted. From that time on, he became my official driver. I nicknamed him Nzamba Nguu (an experienced Cockerel). His ability to handle numerous tasks; from a driver, personal assistant to a campaign manager earned him the name. Muindu later confided in me that most of my supporters were disheartened by my failure to capture the seat. He also disliked my appeal for peace and calm while shying away from violence. He would have loved to see more action and drama. I would ask him “why should we fight for some­thing we have no control over? Votes belong to the people and there is no way we could fight physically to get them.” MY IDEAS SOUNDED MEANINGLESS Although he could see some sense in what 1 was saying, practically, my ideas sounded meaningless at that time. Vilivu won. I lost. Wambua and his colleagues were devastated. They went back to their studies while I quietly withdrew from the scene. I felt I was totally unpre­pared when I faced Manandu in 1983. Widely dismissed as a misguided if not an adventurous young man, my first humiliating failure in politics came as no surprise to anyone. On August 28, 1983, during one of the first rallies at Kabati Trading Centre, I both surprised and annoyed my audience. The meeting was attended by all the aspirants for the Kitui North Parliamentary seat, including Vilivu. During those single party days, all candidates campaigned at joint rallies. It was a sunny day at Kabati. The azure sky bore all the ingredients of a great day. The audience held its breath. The drum beats and frenzied ululations had stopped. Anticipation and silence descended on the gathering as though they were twins. I stood still, scanned the crowd and cleared my throat to speak. I expounded my dream for the development and betterment of my constituents and the changes I would bring about if they elected me Member of Parliament. I thought I spoke with such zeal and pure passion, gesticulating as I emphasised my points. How­ever, I later learnt that many were astonished not by my eloquence but by my “shocking” promises. My first assignment, I told the bewildered crowd, would be to have Kitui North subdivided into two or more constituencies for effective administration and service delivery. “We thought you were mad or even stupid” recalled the man who later became one of the pillars of my campaigns, Councillor Morris Musyoka wa Nzilli popularly known as “Wamaiyu”. At the time, Wamaiyu was in Manandu’s campaign team. “In that era, the creation of constituencies was unknown in Kenyan politics. So we were surprised. But I must say that it was because of that shocking declaration that we started taking note of this boy. We thought that he must either be out of his mind, or extremely brave. At that time, the majority of us supported Philip Manandu,” says Wamaiyu. ADORED BY VOTERS Manandu was adored by voters who appreciated his oratory skills and mastery of the Kamba language. He knew what to say and; when to say it. He sent crowds reeling with laughter with his humour. But at the Kabati function, I gained con­fidence with every passing second. I soon had the crowd singing, cheering and ululating. Perhaps they were astounded that I could take on Manandu so open­ly: “We are out of the stone age. People should be able to elect modern leaders who are educated and capable of approaching issues intelligently. As soon as the words were out, there was deafening silence. Nobody had ever dared Vilivu in public like this before. When Vilivu rose to speak, the entire venue was wrapped up in fearful silence. The tension was palpable. He gingerly received the mi­crophone from the District Officer and with the air of one in mourning; he let a whole minute of silence slip by. Scanning the crowd and the horizon before him, he finally asked: “Wo kya kuu kuu? (Does the shoe fit that foot really?)” The crowd, which had slipped into a frightening daze, roared back in unison, “Eka! (No!).” The rest is history. Manandu won the election with a landslide, 15,041 votes.   Mulei was second with 9,327, Dr. Kitonga third with 6,295 while I limped in with 3,138 votes, ahead of my learned senior JMD Musyoka who scored just over 1,000 votes. The effects of this political humiliation were long-lasting for me. I came to accept the fact that failure is an important milestone because it teaches one the value of success. Without failure, one can easily take life for granted. It puts things in per­spective and causes one to grow. Although my interest in politics took a nosedive after the resounding defeat, it was rekindled by a by-election occasioned by Manandu’s death. Nearly two years after his re-election, Manandu was shot dead by an Administration Policeman. The shooting happened at the MP’s shop at Tseikuru market. Apparently, someone had stolen a plough belonging to either Manandu or a relative and when the suspect was arrested and taken to the Chief’s camp, the administration policeman released him without reference to the Member of Par­liament. This is said to have infuriated the MP so much that he vowed to have the policeman punished. The AP launched a deadly pre-emptive strike. After going on a drinking spree, he armed himself with a rifle and headed to  Manandu’s shop where he shot him dead at point blank range along with three other people. ATTENTION TURNED TOWARDS ME The MP’s death suddenly turned the constituency’s attention towards me despite having given up interest in politics. Pressure came from villagers and elders. At that time, Pauline, my fiance and I were planning our wedding and I had gone on a foreign trip during which I bought our wedding rings. I did not have much money to spend and had lost the taste for politics. In fact, I had decided to venture into commercial law practice full time and opened my practice at Church House under the name S.K. Musyoka & Co Advocates. Some clients had instructed me to act on their behalf as they sought to assist the island of Zanzibar to improve its clove industry by borrowing from the Arab world. I thought it was a golden opportunity for me to grow my legal career. The Zanzibar business had taken me on a trip to London and while I was there, my curiosity got the better of me. I decided to find out how the arrangements for the by-elec­tion back home were unfolding. I called Winfred Nyiva Mwendwa. Her husband, Kitili Mwendwa, was then the Kitui West MP. Kitili was of the view that Josephat Mulyungi should run because I had contested in 1983 and lost. I gave up at this point. Those were the days of the Mwakenya witch­hunts and everything including politics was centralised. I knew that if a powerful player like Kitili was not supportive then I might not even get party clearance. But when I called Nyiva from London, she said: “No they haven’t finished my lmwa-na’ (child) so if you want to come home and participate you can do so”. Within a week, I was back. But I still had no clear interest in the seat, despite a newspaper advertisement announcing the nominations for the by-elections. It was one week to the nomination deadline, and still I had no interest in joining the contest. I even witnessed the swearing of an affidavit for Dr Justus Kitonga who wanted to run for the seat again. One Friday afternoon while at my offices at Church House, the minister in the Office of the President, Justus ole Tipis, telephoned. Tipis was one of the most powerful ministers in Kenya and the Kanu National Treasurer. He said: “Bwana Wakili, where are you? Can I see you?” A TWIST I went to his office where we spoke at length. He wanted me to join the by-election race. I said that I did not want to run because I was not financially and mentally prepared. In addition, I told him that I had agreed with other leaders that we would all support Mulyungi. We left it at that. But then there was a twist that swung things my way. When Mulyungi went to present his papers the following day, they were rejected. He was accused of being in possession of a seditious publication known as Pambana. I was then persuaded to run otherwise, it was going to be a walk over for Justus Mulei of COTU. Before entering the race, I had to obtain the support and blessings of the two most important women in my life, my fiancee, Pauline and my mother, Malia. It was to Pauline that I went first. I was very thoughtful and disturbed when I met her at her sister’s house. She could tell I wanted to say something but couldn’t quite figure out how to say it. Eventually, I told her that I wanted to vie for the vacant parliamentary seat. She told me flatly that she did not support the move. I sat there for hours begging her to bless and support my decision. Her sister, Jane, noticed my lengthy stay and realised something was wrong. She asked her what was wrong. After Pauline told her the story, Jane asked her to let me try my luck. I had carried the electoral commission documents with me and I signed them in the presence of Pauline and Jane before I left. Next stop was Tseikuru to talk to my mother. Like Pauline, she also flatly refused to allow me to contest. It took my father and me the whole night to convince her. “Philip has been killed in this thing you are calling politics. I don’t think I will allow you to go there and die,” my mother told me. We argued with her late into the night. At 6am the following morning, she said, “so be it, I have blessed you. Even if you die at it you have my blessings and support and I have withdrawn all the harsh words uttered against your decision.” This time round, even Mzee Muindu was shocked by my transformation. It was clear that I was a changed man. I could ef­fortlessly employ stylistic devices in Kikamba. I had mastered Kamba poetry and songs. People listened to me when I spoke and I could make them laugh with my wisecracks. Scores of enthusiastic university students, once again mobilised by Wambua and Munywoki, offered their time to campaign for me. One of them, Francis Mwanzia Nyenze, later became Member of Parliament for Kitui West and a Cabinet Minister. INTRODUCED TO MULU MUTISYA Kitili Mwendwa introduced me to Mulu Mutisya, the Kamba political kingpin, who added strength to my popularity when he asked people to support me. From then on things moved with much ease. The campaigns were not as tough as the main election in 1983. Many people still remembered me, a naive, young but enthusiastic lawyer seeking votes in a bat­tered yellow Lancer, registration number KPZ 079. That was my first car. I have retained the numerals 079 for most of my vehicles ever since. The contenders knew they were fighting to win the hearts and minds of Manandu’s supporters. The Weekly Review of March 22, 1985 stated as much: “The Kitui North Constituency by-election, occasioned by the murder of the for­mer MP, Mr. Philip Manandu, has attracted three candidates, all of whom ran against Manandu in the 1983 General Election. The election is scheduled for April 9 and when candidates presented their nomination papers on Monday this week, they gave the impression that the most crucial issue in the election will be the extent to which they identify with the late Manandu. Given the brutal manner in which Manandu died, it can be expected that his former supporters may be inclined to back the candidate they feel will take over his mantle.” UPPER HAND I had an upper hand over my rivals. I hailed from Manandu’s home area. Kamba elders from my home added their blessings to my contest. During a campaign rally at Tseikuru market, they told me: “You are our son and you will carry the load your uncle, Philip Mutisya Manandu used to carry.” (Daily Nation, April 5, 1985, p3) I vowed to carry the load with dedication; promising not to let my people down. From then on, the ride was smooth all the way to victory. “Musyoka is Kitui North MP,” wrote the Daily Nation the day after the by-election: “Thirty-one-year-old Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka, a Nairobi lawyer, trounced two other candidates in a by-election on Tuesday to become the new Member of Par­liament for Kitui North. He polled 12,739 votes against 7,307 by his closest rival, Mr. Justus Mulei Vele, the secretary general of the Central Organisation of Trade Unions. A former MP for the area, Dr. Justus Kitonga, had to content himself with 3,331 votes. Some 475 ballots were declared spoilt. As soon as the returning officer, Mr. Justimore Mghasi, who is the Kitui District Commissioner, announced the results, supporters carried Mr. Musyoka shoul­der high and whisked him off to the home of the MP for Kitui West, Mr. Kitili Mwendwa, where dancing, singing, eating, and drinking followed. When the excitement abated, the new MP told reporters covering the elections he would have a week’s rest before touring the constituency to assess development priorities and start working on them. He thanked voters for their support and urged the defeated contestants to co-operate with him in carrying on from where Mr. Manandu had left off. He said his top priority was to bridge the political schism created during the electioneering period. Mr. Kalonzo’s advantage over Mr. Mulei and Dr. Kitonga was attributed to the traditional and crucial nature of bloc voting in the constituency. People there believe very strongly in voting for leaders from their areas, and for Tuesday’s elections, the Tyaa River, which divides the constituency into two halves played the most decisive role of all. The people of the northern half — in Tseikuru, Tharaka, Kyuso and Katse — reportedly vowed that none of their votes would “cross” the Tyaa River. The area has a combined 48,000-registered voters and Mr. Musyoka was the only candidate from there. The southern half has only 26,000 registered voters and both Mr. Mulei and Dr. Kitonga had to scramble for them. (Daily Nation, April 11, 1985, pages 1 and 24) The Weekly Review, then Kenya’s leading political news magazine, wrote: “Age was no hindrance to the youthful lawyer, whose meteoric political rise must have been a source of envy for many veteran politicians. His career witnessed one piece of good fortune after another …” The magazine had earlier predicted my victory in its March 22 edition: “The most crucial factor in the outcome of the by-election will be the geographical origin of the three candidates. Whereas Musyoka, alone comes from what in the constituency is referred to as the Far North, where Manandu also hailed from the other two candidates Mulei and Kitonga come from the Near North and have to share the votes from the area.”   Copyright Stephen Kalonzo Musyoka 2016. To be continued Sunday  