Four amateur football clubs in Nairobi’s Korogocho slums are the first beneficiaries of the initial batch of football kits donated by SportPesa partners playing in the English Premier League under the Kits for Kenya initiative. The teams were picked from Korogocho’s nine villages which include Kisumu Ndogo, Nyayo, Highbridge and Korogocho ‘A’. The initiative which kicked off in November entailed a donation of football kits by fans of EPL clubs Hull City and Southampton. “Football here in Korogocho is what keeps many young people off the streets and away from a life of crime. we keep them engaged through football so any support towards this game is very welcome and beneficial,” said Stanley Okumbi, the founder of Korogocho Youth, a foundation that uses sports to improve the lives of young people living in the slum. Okumbi, who is also the head coach of Harambee Stars, thanked SportPesa, Hull City and Southampton noting that kitting teams from the slum has been a major challenge in keeping the foundation’s sporting programme going. “Most grassroots teams prefer support in terms of provision of kits as opposed to direct financial assistance because kits are long lasting and thus more beneficial to them,” said Okumbi. Hull City launched the Kits for Kenya initiative to spread holiday cheer as the highlight of the festive season kicks in. “We do recognise both the opportunity and the profound responsibility that is ours to address obstacles limiting the success of football in the country." “The youth are continually dealing with lack of financial support to allow them realise their full potential. By distributing the football kits, we hope to nature more talent and push Kenya one step closer to participating in the 2022 Fifa World Cup,” said Andrew Sikwe from SportPesa. SportPesa, one of the leading sports betting company in Kenya, is the shirt sponsor for Hull City. A second batch of donated kits will arrive in the country in the new year. With these investments, Sportpesa hopes to nurture grassroots football and complement SportPesa’s existing sponsorship of SportPesa Premier League and SportPesa Super 8 League which will ultimately boost the performance of the National team.  