Once upon a time Nairobi was referred to as “the city in the sun” owing to its clean streets, good housing, ever flowing water, and smooth traffic. This was mainly in the sixties, seventies, and early eighties, when residents of the capital enjoyed efficient service. The city government was then in the hands of the now-defunct Nairobi City Council, which was led by a mayor. With their budget heavily funded by revenues, these administrations still managed to govern Nairobi in a way that elevated the capital to be among the best in Africa. Then came the nineties and the new millennium and hell seemed to have broken lose, with all services gone to the dogs. Neglect and decay became the new norm in Nairobi. Garbage heaps popped up everywhere, taps became perennially dry, and traffic jams clogged the city’s roads. Many Nairobians had hope that the introduction of devolution and county governments would turn around the fortunes of their beloved city. Instead things seem to have become worse despite the billions of shillings collected from revenue and more pumped from the national treasury. The Nairobi City county collects more than Sh72 billion annually from revenue and allocations from the Consolidated Fund. However, very few Nairobians can see any improvement in services in their homes or places of work. VARIOUS POINTS Heaps of trash have accumulated at various points in the central business district and residential areas. This despite the fact that City Hall has entered into highly publicised multi-million-shilling deals with private garbage collection companies. Besides some of these private contractors taking business away from small-scale youth garbage collectors in the estates, they collude with dump site weighbridge operators to exaggerate tonnage, thus swindling the county. This is possible because the county’s management has not put in place any measures and mechanisms to ensure that the private collectors do their work at the agreed rates. The drainage and the sewer systems have not been spared either. During the rainy season roads and neighbourhoods get flooded. Garbage accumulation and failure to unclog the drainage regularly is the major cause of the frequent flooding. In May 2015, City Hall set aside Sh50 million to unblock the drainage after many parts of the city were flooded. However, most of the work was done by the National Youth Service. So, where did the money go? The county management spent millions in the recruitment of traffic marshalls, who were supposed to work with the traffic police to ensure smooth flow of vehicles during rush hour. But the roads remain congested. Often, the marshalls are nowhere to be seen during traffic jams and when they show up, they do little to clear the roads. Not even the infamous “Kidero drums” that are said to have cost the taxpayer more than Sh4 million could help ease Nairobi’s perennial snarl-ups. WATER SHORTAGE One of the biggest nightmares for Nairobi residents, especially those from the eastern side of the city, is water shortage. Most residents of areas such as Umoja, Pipeline, Kayole, and Dandora cannot remember the last time they found water in their taps. While rationing is a logical explanation, having dry taps for months or years on end is an act of sabotage against citizens whose taxes maintain this county government. Many capitals across the world have migrated to a 24-hour economy, where people work round the clock, hence increasing job opportunities. The first step towards a non-stop economy is security and lighting. Although the county management has spent a lot of money to instal a dubious security system, crime is still high and the estates are poorly lit. This has created a conducive environment for crimes such as robbery and mugging. The administration at City Hall seems unable to address these concerns and many others, therefore it has failed the test of leadership.  Peter Kenneth is former presidential candidate and Member of Parliament for Gatanga. me@peterkenneth.com  