Many people do not bother to have their property valued,  yet it is very important because it determines the  property’s true worth of  your property. Generally, people have their property valued when they want to sell it or to use it as collateral to get a loan. Mr Brian Ondimu, a valuer at Advent Valuers Ltd, says a valuation can help you determine how much you can borrow from a bank, say for a mortgage, or how much you should pay for a  property you want to buy. There are several things that inform a value, he says, adding that location is a crucial one. Others are the way it is built, the amenities available and the age of the building, he adds. If the  building is complex, the value tends to be high. “You might find two properties that are similar but one has a school, a supermarket or even a mall nearby. All these factors will affect the valuation,” he offers. If you are thinking of selling your property, the first step you should take is consult real estate agents to help determine its  value. Whether it is old or new, there are several things you can do to make it more appealing. Tidy up A valuation report is normally accompanied by photos,  so you do not want an untidy compound. “For the sake of general cleanliness, the place needs to be neat so that the photos are attractive. Meanwhile, if you are doing a valuation for the purpose of selling the property, you will want to give your client a valuation report as reference. Consequently, it is important for it to be presentable,” says Mr Ondimu. Research on value of surrounding property You also need to know the values of the property around, which Mr Ondimu says is the work of the valuer. However, he suggest that, “As an interested party, it is important to do your own research as this will give you a general idea of what the value is likely to be.” The value of a property is informed by the surrounding so doing your own research enables you to know which  questions to ask the valuer, especially if the value turns out to be lower or higher than you expected. Get a trustworthy valuer Valuers are regulated by the Valuers Act, which stipulates that anyone carrying out valuations must be registered with Valuers’  Registration Board. It is important to do a research on the valuer to ensure that he or she is registered. “If you engage a valuer who is not registered and they present a report to, say the bank and it later discovers that they are not registered, the bank will reject the report,” Mr Ondimu cautions. In such a case, you have to have another valuation done, with increased costs implications. Be honest The question of honesty is critical, Mr Ondimu avers. “A valuer is informed by facts, so you should  disclose everything such as a leaking roof or if there are issues with the title deed. “You should be open to the valuer to help him come to a value that is acceptable to both you and the other party,” he says. Emphasise best features A valuer should be able to point out the best features of a property, as long as they have access to the entire property,” says Mr Ondimu. “The best features enhance the value of a property. For example, you might have a fireplace in your lounge, or decorations like gypsum finishes on the ceiling. It is okay to point them out, although a valuer should be able to pick them out during an inspection. Give the valuer space A valuer can  inspect a property on his  or her own and pick out the important features of a property. However, for security reasons, a client might want to accompany the valuer. “If you must accompany the valuer, you should be open-minded. Do not try to hide anything or try to influence the valuer in any way. You should be like a guide showing them around,” Mr Ondimu says. However, if a house is vacant, a valuer can do an inspection alone and pick out all important features,” he says. Consider improvements “This normally arises when you are doing a valuation involving a tenant and landlord, where the landlord wants a valuation done on a property that is occupied,” In such a case, a valuer should be able to distinguish between the landlord’s interests and the tenant’s interests. “A valuer should capture improvements that have been made by the different parties. In case the tenant wants to buy the property, these improvements should be factored in during the valuation. For example, if a house was built without grilles and the tenant added some, the cost incurred should be factored in and later reimbursed to the tenant,” he says. Seek justification for price A valuation is based on facts so it is acceptable to ask how the valuer arrived at a given figure. “We are trained to arrive at a valuation using different methods and all methods are supported by facts and findings. Any valuer should be able to explain how they arrived at a figure,” he says. “Valuations are very important.  You might think  you know the value of a property when in fact you don’t. Often, you find people who are desperate to buy or sell property. A person who is desperate to buy might end up losing by buying a property whose cost is exaggerated, only to realise later discover that they burnt their fingers,” he says. “And if you want to sell your property,  don’t listen to speculation regarding the neighbourhood as it might be misleading. You might sell at the same price your neighbour did, only to discover later that your property has more unique features, making it more valuable,” he says.  