Interior Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery has warned politicians seeking elective positions next year to refrain from any acts of incitement to violence saying the government will not hesitate to arrest and prosecute war mongers. Mr Nkaissery said hate speech, tribal mobilisation and incitement to violence will not be tolerated. He said the ministry has equipped police officers with the necessary assets including tape recorders to monitor hate mongers. “We have acquired voice recording gadgets to monitor. We will arrest those propagating hate speeches and quickly deliver you to court for prosecution,” Mr Nkaissery said at the Leisure Lodge Resort in Mombasa. The Summit at Leisure Lodge brought together members of the Kenya Private Sector Alliance (KEPSA), MPs, Senators, cabinet secretaries, members of independent commissions, diplomats and political leaders mainly from the ruling coalition. Pointing out that slowed courts process have been an impediment to the war against hate speech and violence, the CS said the ministry will continue to engage the relevant agencies to deal with the culprits. He further instructed provincial administrators to hold monthly public barazas at to urge the public to acquire identity cards and register as voters. Mr Nkaissery and Inspector General of Police Joseph Boinett said the government had mapped out areas prone to violence. The Director of Public Prosecutions Keriako Tobiko and Justice Msagha Mbogholi, who represented Chief Justice David Maraga denied claims that the courts were frustrating the justice process. “It is not true that cases are not being prosecuted. We have the highest cases of corruption in courts involving very high ranking people,” Mr Tobiko said. He said that where evidence has been presented, they have preferred charges against the suspects irrespective of their stature in society. “Nineteen of the cases are on hate speech and incitement. Seven of them are against sitting MPs, some with multiple cases. I see some of my clients here. I don’t want to embarrass them,” Mr Tobiko said. He said a unit has been established to handle election and election related offences in the 47 counties to fast track cases. Mr Tobiko revealed that 147 officers, specifically dedicated to hate speech and incitement, have been trained and dispatched to the counties. Justice Mbogholi said it is unfortunate the judiciary has remained the punching bag on grounds that it has failed to send to jail suspected offenders yet the courts are guided by evidence. “Judiciary is not the only driver of criminal justice system. We depend on evidence by police, prosecutors. If witnesses are not in court, the courts can’t force a case to continue,” he said. Political Parties Registrar Lucy Ndung’u also said parties that are not complying with the set regulations will not be spared.  