Mr David Waweru is the founder of WordAlive Publishers and the chairman of the Kenya Publishers Association. What process does an author have to go through before being published? One needs to write, rewrite their work again and again, with the guidance of critical reviewers and a professional editor. This helps improve the quality of the manuscript. Second, one needs to study the market and identify the publishing houses that are publishing in the area one has written about. Finally, one needs to familiarise themselves with the publishing house’s manuscript or book proposal submission guidelines.  What are the hallmarks of a well-written manuscript? It must have a  specific focus with a well-developed plot. The characters must also be presented in an engaging and logical sequence. You must also observe the rules of grammar.  Which genre books sell more? In Kenya, textbooks because most readership is academic-oriented. Lying second in readership is the Bible, followed by personal development books and finally, fiction.  Which strategies are effective in marketing books in Kenya? The strategies that have been deployed time and time again and work include; targeting specific market segments of the book through platforms and media that they use regularly, author platforms, that is, their speaking circuits, website, blogs, social media, media appearances, social circles and finally, mainline media.  What goes into acquiring rights to publishing foreign books and how costly/cheap is it compared to publishing locally? The acquiring entity/publisher needs to request for publishing rights for specific territories. Once rights are granted, a license agreement must be signed, specifying the conditions of the grant of rights. These follows payment of advance royalties, which is bound to be recovered from future sales of the title.  Which sells more, foreign or locally published books? From my experience, neither has an advantage over the other because it entirely depends on the quality of the book, marketing effort, and the market’s perception of a title. WordAlive Publishers sells as many local books as we sell international titles published under license.  On average, what percentage of royalty is received by an author whose book you have published? It ranges from 12 per cent to 14 per cent of net sales.  What determines the price of a book? The direct costs, which include editorial costs, illustrations, printing, shipping; Indirect costs, which include publisher’s overheads, marketing and royalties and taxes.  What challenges do you face as publishers? Piracy is high on the list. Second is unemployment, which means there is less disposable income to purchase books. Third is increased tax rates on books, which raises the cost of books. Our curriculum overload also means that most students hardly have time to read for leisure.  Why would an author prefer being published as opposed to being self-published? Traditional publishing, though difficult to access, has many benefits: an author gets access to quality book development (editorial) processes, sales, marketing and distribution platforms and networks, as opposed to self-publishing whereby the author has to play all the roles himself.  What opportunities are available for young authors? The internet through websites, blogs and social media have created a means for self-expression and their perfection of the art of writing before putting out a book. It also acts as the best positioning for marketing for their books.  