Cord leader Raila Odinga on Thursday called for more allocations to county governments and devolution of more functions. While opening the Kilifi International Investment Conference at Pwani University, Mr Odinga said that was the only way to achieve uniform economic development. Hundreds of investors are at the conference that runs for three days. According to Mr Odinga, Kenya was heavily endowed with resources which could be fully exploited if more money was channelled to counties. “Kilifi, for example, is endowed with minerals and other natural resources, but according to a 2009 report, 68 per cent of its population lives below the poverty line,” he said. The opposition leader proposed that a minimum of 35 per cent of national resources be sent to counties. Citing the 1965 Sessional Paper No 10 that divided the country into high and low potential areas as the genesis of marginalisation, he said the implementation of the Truth, Justice and Reconciliation Commission report would end uneven development. “Even with its vast marine resources and massive economic resources, the Coast remained one of the poorest regions in the country but devolving more funds will address the differences,” he said. Mr Odinga expressed the need for counties to work together in tapping resources in order to promote unified development. Earlier, Governor Amason Kingi said the county had the largest mineral deposits and a seaboard that had not been fully exploited. “The wealth of Kilifi is not in tourism alone. This is why we came up with this forum,” the county boss said. Senator Stewart Madzayo, Malindi MP William Mtengo, his Rabai counterpart William Kamoti and Kaloleni’s Gunga Mwinga attended the forum. County speaker Jimmy Kahindi said the assembly had passed Bills that promoted an investment environment. Mr Mwinga, who is also the Coast Parliamentary Group chairman, urged lawmakers to put their differences aside “for the sake of development”. Centum Investment has shown interest in building a multibillion-shilling mega city in Kilifi. The firm plans to build a 10,500-acre industrial hub, which is expected to turn the county into a business and industrial city.  