Narc-Kenya leader Martha Karua has asked female voters to reject candidates who despise and disrespect women, whom they only need during elections. She told women that they must liberate themselves mentally and stop imagining that they will get leadership the easy way. Speaking on Saturday at the Renaissance Centre in Mombasa started by Senator Hassan Omar to create leadership awareness, Ms Karua said women had been misused by men in the past.“Our leadership has never complied with the two-thirds gender rule even though our leaders swear to protect the constitution when they assume office”, she said. She said that women have been pushed to the country’s periphery despite immensely contributing to liberation. She cited such heroines like the Giriama leader Mekatilili wa Menza and herself. Women, she said, should use the strength of numbers to support one another politically. CARE FOR CHILDREN “Women are the best managers. We care for our children from infancy until they become prominent leaders. We are strong and capable of making a difference”, she said. She said women should not be judgemental on one another, but instead give support to any of them who aspires to become a leader whether in politics or other fields. Mr Karua reaffirmed her candidature for the presidency in next year’s General Election and urged all voters to support her, saying she would not give up even after losing in past elections. Maendeleo ya Wanawake Organisation national vice-chairperson Sureya Hersi said there was a need to educate girls and empower them through role modelling. They should discard stereotypes that women were their own enemy, she said. “It is you to deal with the social issues with a passion; stand up and fight for your rights. Nobody is oppressing you”, she said and added that she was disappointed with the performance of coast female legislators. “Let coast women not be known only for singing and dancing for others. We should fight and take leadership positions in political parties. Problem is that we talk too much and do little,” she said.  