One of the more interesting reactions after losing 2013 presidential candidate Peter Kenneth announced that he will not be in the running next year, but will instead support President Uhuru Kenyatta’s re-election bid, came from Nairobi lawyer Donald Kipkorir. “Have had a long chat @Peter_Kenneth & has asked me to assure the Kalenjin Nation that he will never run against H.E @WilliamsRuto”, he posted on Twitter. The flamboyant lawyer has gained notoriety on social media for his endless posts displaying a gilded lifestyle of conspicuous consumption. But he also uses Facebook and Twitter to flag his position as a key surrogate for Deputy President William Ruto, and aspiring spokesman for what he calls the Kalenjin Nation. In a conversation at his Nairobi office, Mr Kenneth recalled that Mr Kipkorir called to express his concerns, and says he assured him that running against the presumed Jubilee nominee in 2022 is not on his mind. But he expresses himself mystified that Mr Kipkorir or anyone else would have interpreted his move as a threat to Mr Ruto or to Kalenjin political aspirations, and was surprised to see the Twitter message coming out of a private conversation. The Jubilee Party will, at the presidential elections next year, be backing the Uhuru-Ruto ticket, and then move into the succession deal in which Mr Ruto will be the presidential candidate in 2022 when Mr Kenyatta will not be eligible for a third term. Mr Ruto is, as in 2013, fully committed to throwing the weight of his sizeable ethnic bloc behind President Kenyatta next year; while the latter has issued public statements affirming his support for the succession deal in 2022. There has been some apprehension within the Kalenjin community, however, that Mr Kenyatta’s Kikuyu could renege on the deal when it comes to Mr Ruto’s turn for a stab at the presidency. It is not clear why these fears have been amplified by Mr Kenneth’s re-entry into politics after the post-2013 sabbatical, but the issue has dominated conversations on social media and even political platforms. While Mr Kipkorir had the courtesy to directly reach out to Mr Kenneth for clarification, others, such as Uasin Gishu Governor Jackson Mandago, a vitriolic Ruto supporter, reacted in much harsher tones. 2022 PLANNINGHe claimed that Mr Kenneth’s statement was proof that powerful Central Kenya politicians were grooming the former MP for Gatanga to succeed President Kenyatta, warning that the Kikuyu must vote for Mr Ruto “to pay a political debt of the 2013 and 2017 elections”. Speaking at a funeral in Kapseret in the company of MP Oscar Sudi, the governor vowed that the Kalenjin would not allow themselves to be “used and dumped”. He charged that Mr Kenneth’s apparent plans to run for Governor of Nairobi was part of a scheme to sabotage the Deputy President’s 2022 plan, threatening to expose key figures he claimed were meeting in furtherance of the alleged plot. He also chimed in with the claim that the sensational defamation case pitting Mr Ruto against activist Boniface Mwangi was part of the same plot to tarnish the DP’s name. He did not mention that it was actually Mr Ruto who initiated the defamation case against the activist, only for the latter to pick up the gauntlet and turn it into an examination of the DPs reputation, or lack of it. The outspoken governor, who recently caused outrage by campaigning against a non-Kalenjin being appointed Vice Chancellor of Moi University, is not new to ethnic baiting. He may be off the mark on the Kenneth issue, but he is responding to deep-seated if hardly ventilated concerns within the Kalenjin community. Just in June, for instance, President Kenyatta was forced to issue a public statement affirming his support for Mr Ruto’s 2022 presidential election bid. This was after Kiambu Governor William Kabogo and little-known Nakuru Nominated Senator Paul Njoroge separately warned that Mr Ruto must not take for granted the Central Kenya vote come 2022. Though neither of the two could remotely claim to represent the thinking of the President or the influential central Kenya figures in his Kitchen Cabinet, the statements rung alarm bells in Mr Ruto’s Rift Valley backyard, hence the need for swift damage control. VOTES GARNEREDBut even before that bit of drama, there had been growing indications that a group of influential Central Kenya politicians, businessmen and church leaders were beginning to consider the community’s options for the post-Uhuru dispensation. The group, alternately styling itself as a Kikuyu Council of Elders or a revived Gikuyu Embu Meru Association (Gema) was said to be discussing a vacuum after President Kenyatta exits the scene at the expiry of his second term in 2022 — presumption being that he would be re-elected in 2017. Names of potential successors from the community were already being bandied around, and that is now Mr Kenneth came into the picture. His statement last Sunday was, therefore, bound to be interpreted in that light. Mr Kenneth, however, insists that his was merely a routine clarification following persistent queries from supporters about his political stand. He was attending a prayer service at St Theresa Girls School in Eastleigh, Nairobi, when he chose to clear the air on his intentions. In just a few short sentences, he announced that he would not be standing for President but would instead support Mr Kenyatta. He also said he was mulling over his options after being approached to stand for governor in three counties: Murang’a, where he made a name as MP for Gatanga in the last Parliament; in Nairobi where he grew up and still lives; and in Nakuru where he has various interests. Mr Kenneth now says he is surprised that his words at what he saw as a closed gathering have generated such heat, but his protestations might be taken with a pinch of salt as the media was present in force. That he does not intend to vie for president next year is not surprising after the mauling he got in 2013. Mr Kenneth, of the Kenya National Congress, approached the elections enjoying great exposure on social media and was a favourite of city sophisticates. But the realities of Kenyan politics hit home hard when he managed only a paltry, 72,786 votes, to finish a distant fourth ahead of a bunch of other also-rans, Mr Abduba Diba, Ms Martha Karua, Prof James Kiyiapi and Mr Paul Muite. CARDINAL RULEThe lesson that sunk in was that no presidential candidate can hope to make an impact without the backing of a solid ethnic constituency, as enjoyed by victor Uhuru Kenyatta of the Jubilee alliance and runner-up Raila Odinga of the Cord coalition. Even the third-placed Musalia Mudavadi had a sizeable ethnic bloc though not enough to mount a serious challenge. Mr Kenneth also sees the next election as a straight fight — from the presidency down to the lower offices — between Jubilee and Cord, and therefore no room for his Kenya National Congress or any other aspiring third forces. He knows that as long as President Kenyatta has a firm grip on the central Kenya vote, he would be throwing away his deposit by trying again for the presidency. But this is also what is causing speculation that he is borrowing from President Kenyatta’s political manual. In 2002, the young Uhuru Kenyatta ran on the Kanu ticket as outgoing President Daniel arap Moi’s hand-picked successor, but found that veteran opposition leader Mwai Kibaki had already locked up the central Kenya vote. In 2007, Mr Kenyatta decided that it would be futile challenging President Kibaki, and instead manoeuvred himself to become one of the key strategists for the re-election bid, and ‘Independence party’ Kanu for the first time in its history failed to present a presidential candidate. Mr Kenyatta was angling not just for a prime spot in the Kibaki government, but looking further ahead to community leadership once the president served out his final term. To do that he had to be faithfully by the president’s side, and also repair relations that might have become strained when he ran against the community champion previously. It came to pass, and Mr Kenyatta was unchallenged as the Kikuyu political supremo when the 2103 elections came along. There will be many now projecting ahead to the Uhuru succession and a cardinal rule is that one must be by his side, and in good books with his expansive voting bloc. RUNNING FOR GOVERNOR?That Mr Kenneth’s decision to sit out the race and support President Kenyatta mirrors the latter’s ploy is not lost to observers. The only difference is that Mr Kenyatta was one of the two major-party presidential candidates in 2002, while Mr Kenneth was on the fringes during his 2013 effort. However, it is also true that in central Kenya presently, there are hardly any politicians with the stature, name recognition and national appeal to stand out as naturals for the mantle. That might explain why the elders group fronted by Equity Bank chairman Peter Munga has been looking beyond the Jubilee ranks and current elected leaders, to figures like Mr Kenneth. According to some sources, well-known figures such as 2013 presidential candidates Martha Karua and Paul Muite were being considered, but were ruled out because they are seen as irredeemable rebels in terms of Kikuyu elite political designs. Mr Kenneth, however, denies having been approached by the Gema grouping or any other community formation. “They have not approached me. Maybe they do not even recognise me as one of their own and that’s why they have not reached out to me,” he says, dismissing Uhuru succession talk as premature. He says the focus should be on the 2017 elections, for it would be a mistake to act as if President Kenyatta’s second and final term is already in the bag. For now, he says, he is preoccupied with the issue of whether he will run for governor, and where. Though he insists he still has to make up his mind, the smart money might be on Nairobi which would fit in with his image of a cosmopolitan national leader rather than a provincial representative.  