It appears many state officers think they are above the State. Every so often they will make proclamations that run counter to the letter and spirit of the law and even the Constitution itself, and expect no consequences. The latest example concerns the forthcoming General Election and the body mandated to run the election: the Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission. It started after some politicians and other actors made serious claims about the conduct of the electoral commission officials, with substantial corroboration including the fact that their co-conspirators in London have been convicted and are serving their sentences in jail. The commissioners denied all the allegations of impropriety and eventually “negotiated” a soft landing with Parliament, ensuring they do not lose their benefits and are able to leave with their dignity intact. After the deal was signed, everyone expected all the parties involved to move with speed to implement it so that the citizens can be assured that the elections will be carried out in a free and fair manner, significantly reducing the risk of subsequent conflict. Unfortunately, it appears the commissioners are intent on playing hardball, indicating they would only leave office after October 4 and upon having their demands accepted. These demands are said to include monetary compensation, legal implications of their resignations and their eligibility for government jobs in future. IMPUNITY ROUTE In all honesty, this brazenness demonstrates just how far down we have come along the route of impunity. We are setting the ground for a future in which government jobs will continue being lucrative not because of the opportunity for public service, but because of the innumerable opportunities to loot without fear of the consequences. There is no better incentive to commit crimes in public office than the assurance that if caught, you will be paid the balance of your pay and negotiate a soft landing for yourself and your cronies. In this brave new Kenya, somebody will turn back and threaten their employer that they will remain in office until a “dignified exit” is agreed upon. Parliament will have to arrange special joint sittings to work out a deal to get the fellow out of office, all at public expense. MORE IMPORTANT The commissioners have led the way for the simple reason that in a country completely consumed by politics, elections become more important than any other national function. Life stops for elections in Kenya, and the results often mean the difference between life and death for many. The fellows running this important function therefore gain a larger-than-life profile, which they then go ahead and use to terrorise the rest of the country. They will threaten, without consequence, to prevent the election from running on schedule as provided for in the constitution, an action that would be treasonable in more civilised settings. The argument that we will have little time to organise elections should the commission be overhauled at this time only serves to pander to the whims of these fellows, making them feel indispensable and therefore above the law. The truth is that we have previously organised elections at a moment’s notice, and we can do it again in future. In any case, there are employees at the commission with specific responsibilities for each aspect of the elections, and it is inconceivable that they too have stopped working until new commissioners are in office. Kenyans need to move away from their reflexive saviour fetish and begin to appreciate that no single individual or group of individuals can be the fulcrum around which our entire existence revolves. This country’s well-being is the product of the efforts of all citizens, and none has a greater claim to the fruits of this labour than another. We must reject this blackmail from people we have employed to carry out specific tasks.  Lukoye Atwoli is associate professor of psychiatry and dean, school of medicine, Moi University. lukoye@gmail.com  