Deputy President William Ruto on Friday moved to solidify his support base in the vote-rich Rift Valley, when he toured Baringo County, a perceived Kanu stronghold to drum up support for the newly formed Jubilee Party. The move is widely seen as an attempt to clip Kanu’s growing influence in the region, especially after the recent formation of Jubilee Party, which has caused jitters in the region with some aspirants fearing that they will be locked out in the primaries. Mr Ruto, who officially opened this year’s Kabarnet Agricultural Society of Kenya show, said leaders from many parts of the country, including eight MPs from Kisii and another 15 from Western had already joined Jubilee. “I have managed to bring leaders from other parts of the country to Jubilee yet there are some at home, who are still lost,” said the DP in a thinly veiled reference to Baringo Senator Gideon Moi. During his tour of the region, Mr Ruto, who also presided over a funds drive in aid of women’s groups in Baringo, said the government had done a lot for the county and urged residents to remain in the ruling coalition. “We will continue collaborating with your leaders. Let us continue walking together in this journey,” said Mr Ruto, who also made a stopover in Kabarnet Town, Senator Moi’s backyard. The DP said that Baringo Technical Institute would be elevated to a university next year and told off those opposed to setting up of a university in the region. “The university will bring many investment opportunities to this region. Those who have moved to court should know that a university will be built in Kabarnet whether they like it or not,” said Mr Ruto. The move has been opposed by some leaders, who claim that there was no public participation in the decision-making. Retired President Daniel Moi has been among those opposing the elevation of technical institutes to universities, arguing that it will lock out many young people who want to learn technical skills. Senator Moi, whose party, Kanu, has in the recent past heightened its activities in the North Rift was conspicuously absent at event. Mr Ruto said that the newly formed Jubilee Party would unite all Kenyans and called on Baringo people to support it. Baringo Governor Benjamin Cheboi assured the Deputy President that the county was in Jubilee despite Kanu’s growing influence in the region. “Residents will elect all leaders, from the president to MPs and MCAs, on a Jubilee Party ticket,” said Mr Cheboi. According to the DP, the government has already spent more than Sh100 billion on water projects along the Kerio Valley region straddling Baringo and Elgeyo-Marakwet counties. The DP, who will today tour the South Rift, said that Sh350 million had been set aside for another university, this time in Bomet. Later in the day, Mr Ruto is expected to tour Ikolomani in Kakamega County. The visit comes barely two weeks after his last tour of the western region. Jubilee is keen to woo voters from the region with many seeing divisions among the region’s leaders as opportunity to exploit.  