Will you know when you’ve met the one? Yes you certainly will. For a start, when you’re right for one another, it simply feels good. To both of you. And there are lots more signs that say when you’re ready to get married. Like you’ll suddenly realise that you’re being completely honest with one another. You happily volunteer information, tell each other everything, and there are simply no secrets between you. You can just be yourself, so there’s no need to pretend. You always support one another. There’s no nagging, criticism or contempt. And you’re happy together. That sounds far too simple, but you’d be amazed how many couples wed even though they’re not happy. And then they’re surprised when things start falling apart. You suddenly realise you don’t feel jealous when your friends start talking about their dates. Or you see their engagement photos on Facebook. You feel comfortable with each other’s families. And your exes are no big deal. Which means that if one of your previous partners is still a big issue, then you’re just not ready. MESSY STUFF You’re also civilised when there’s something difficult to discuss. There’s no ambushes. Or fights in the middle of the night. Or in public. You’re able to discuss and resolve issues, instead of hiding away from them. Or getting angry or manipulative. You fight of course. But no-one sulks. Or threatens to end the relationship whenever things get sticky. Instead, you’ve both become good listeners, and are always willing to work things out. Because the relationship means more to you than who’s right or wrong. Your money is no longer personal, but something you share. Without any drama about who earned or who’s spending it. Money’s always high on the list of things couples fight about, so you’ve taken a really big step once you realise you’ve stopped counting how much you’re each spending on the relationship. And have started budgeting for shared expenses. And are talking about your future financial plans together. You’re able to talk about every aspect of sex. And everything else about your bodies. Because the fact is that real life’s always pretty messy. So another good sign’s when you’re no longer grossed out by the sound of your partner pooping. And can look after one another when you’re ill. Because there will always be terrible messes to clear up, especially once you have children. So realising that you’re OK with all of that is another good sign that you’re with the right partner. You’ve also figured out that no spouse can give you everything you want. Naturally you want your partner to be your best friend, and for them to always be there for you. But there will inevitably be things they can’t do for you. Or times when your interests don’t match. So if your expectations have become completely realistic, and yet you still want to be together, then you really are ready to get married.  