Labour Party of Kenya (LPK) leader Ababu Namwamba has declared that he will vie for presidency in 2022. In what he termed as ‘Busia Declaration’, the Budalang’i MP observed that to fight the status quo, LPK will be fronting for equal salary and allowances for public servants to curb increased wage bill in the country. Speaking on Friday at Busia polytechnic during a political rally, Mr Namwamba explained that having been in existence for 18 years, the party has been part of the transition and development in the country. Mr Namwamba revealed the LPK will front candidates for all elective posts in 2017 general elections except the presidency. “Though there are main suitors, as LPK, we will only support a presidential candidate in 2017 polls after we agree with their aspirations and manifesto but for now, we are yet to agree on a potential presidential candidate we will support,” he said “But if consultations will fail, we will have to front one of our able party members. We had a presidential candidate before and we can still have one in future,” he added. Mr Namwamba, four months ago, decamped from the Orange Democratic Movement (ODM) citing frustration and vowed to constitute a “Third Force” to rival the Jubilee and Cord. He was last month appointed party leader to the party founded by Former Assistant minister Julia Ojiambo. He said LPK will partner with all labour unions in demand for equal payment of not only public and state employees but also workers in private sector. “The main problem with our country is unequal treatment of public service workers where we have a few individuals being paid more while the majority are still forced to march in the streets for improved remuneration,” he said. He also revealed that they are consulting with various coalitions and political parties to form a formidable coalition ahead of 2017. The party Deputy leader Esther Ndololo challenged Kenyans to reject tribal parties fuelling ethnic animosity in the county. She labelled LPK as a new outfit aimed at improving the welfare of the country through equal distribution of resources regardless of tribe, religion or race. Prof Ojiambo, the party chairperson challenged youth in the country to support new ideas for prosperity. She noted that due to cultural beliefs and bureaucracy most of political parties have denied youths a chance to take over the mantle over fear of the unknown. “Having been at the helm of LPK for the last 18 years, I have decided to give youths a chance to take charge of this country. They make 60 per cent of our population and they understand the challenges they go through. Let us empower youths to improve this country. Others present included the party secretary general David Makali, 2013 Nairobi County Women Representative aspirant Isabella Mingala, various MCAs and other aspirants.  