Murang’a Senator Kembi Gitura wants Governor Mwangi Wa Iria to reveal the sources of funds he is using to place regular advertisements in the media about his achievements. Senator Gitura says he suspects the governor is still using public funds for personal aggrandisement, denying the county resources to support crucial development projects. At a press conference in Murang’a Town, the senator noted that for the past few weeks, there have been constant, personalised advertisements on both television, radio and billboards concerning the county. Mr Gitura said that a month ago, he wrote a letter to county secretary Patrick Mukuria, seeking answers on who was funding the advertisements. The Senate deputy Speaker said he had not received a response from the county government and added that he will forward the matter to the relevant government agencies and urge the to investigate the spending. WHO IS FUNDING ADVERTS? “The purpose of this letter is to bring to your attention the provision of article 35 and 96 of the Constitution and request you to confirm that the advertisement currently running on television and billboards bearing the governor’s image are funded not by the county government but by the governor personally,” read the letter. He remarked that money allocated by the national government and levies collected by counties was not enough to support development, adding that prudence is required in the management of the funds so that residents can benefit from devolution. “County governments have a right to [make] advertisements only for crucial matters, but for Murang’a, the unending adverts are designed to praise an individual under the guise of little development done, [a] strategy to campaign for his re-election next year,” the senator added. He reiterated that he had no personal issues with Governor Wa Iria, adding that it was his task to scrutinise how county funds are used. He also observed that the governor had branded county vehicles with his name, saying this is a misuse of his position.  