Many Kenyans were shocked at revelations of the suspected loss of billions of shillings in questionable payments at the ministry of Health. But this was not the first time Afya House, which has long been described as a home of graft cartels, was in the news for the wrong reasons. In 2003, another health scandal emerged when it was revealed that a former director of Kenyatta National Hospital and one-time Health permanent secretary Prof Julius Meme had irregularly deposited Sh421 million at the controversial Euro Bank which subsequently collapsed. Further investigations conducted by the anti-graft agencies revealed that KNH had lost more than Sh2 billion in reserves between 1999 and 2002 in a series of questionable procurement deals that transformed wheeler-dealers into overnight millionaires. Prof Meme together with top hospital officials including former director Dr Augustine Muita were subsequently charged with corruption. They were accused of investing public funds in Euro Bank which collapsed with Sh1.8 billion belonging to nine other parastatals. After they were arrested and arraigned in court, the parastatal chiefs defended themselves and claimed that it was former President Daniel arap Moi who ordered them to deposit money in the bank. Mr Moi’s name alongside those of his top aides had featured prominently in statements recorded by most parastatal heads with the defunct Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission KACC), now Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC). He is alleged to have prevailed upon the government’s institutional heads to support indigenous bank by investing the money with Euro Bank. Prof Meme was later acquitted while other cases facing various parastatal chiefs were dropped after the death of key suspects including Dr Muita and Euro Bank director Zachary Kamondo, among others. After that 2003 scandal, the floodgates seem to have been opened for funds to be siphoned from the Health ministry through suspicious procurement deals and outright fraud. In 2005, former Naivasha MP John Mututho (former chairman of the National Authority for Campaign against Drug Abuse) was charged with obtaining Sh41.3 million through a tax refund his company received from KNH for the supply of bedside lockers. Mr Mututho faced nine counts of obtaining Sh41.3 million from the hospital using false documents. The prosecution said he forged receipts and invoices between August and December 2001. He purported to have paid the money as tax and duty but the Kenya Revenue Authority dismissed the documents in court as forgeries. KRA officials testified in court that the documents Mr Mututho claimed to have paid the authority as duty for the importation of bedside lockers from Singapore did not correspond to the genuine ones and that the amounts he claimed as tax refund were bloated. Mr Mututho was, however, acquitted in July 2014 after the trial court declared the evidence in the case could not “sustain a conviction” and “served to exonerate him”. The trial magistrate Elena Nderitu said due process was followed in the award of the tender and the quality of the bedside lockers delivered to the hospital was never disputed. In yet another high profile case involving Afya House, three Court of Appeal judges reversed a Sh712 million award offered to a businessman by the High Court for alleged breach of contract. CANCELLATION OF CONTRACT Judges, Alnashir Visram, GBM Kariuki and Jamila Mohammed reversed a decision by Justice Joseph Mutava directing the government to pay Dol International Ltd the lump sum as damages for cancellation of a contract. Dol International was awarded a tender in 2006 to supply the government with X-ray machines, X-ray film envelopes and sutures at a cost of Sh180 million. However, the government cancelled the contract and refused to pay for the equipment already supplied over alleged fraud and corruption. This saw the company move to court in 2009. The suspension of the tender was triggered by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission after complaints that the contract was invalid having been obtained fraudulently. EACC said after investigations it concluded that Dol International director Shadrack Mwiti had manipulated the tendering process and connived with Health ministry officials to secure the contract. Mr Mwiti and the ministry officials were charged with fraud and corruption relating to the contract but the case was thrown out by the anti-corruption court for lack of evidence. In February, 2013, Justice Mutava awarded Dol International Sh712 million as damages for huge losses incurred by the company. He also ruled that there was no evidence to show the tender was secured through fraudulent means. He further observed that the claims of fraud and illegality by EACC were competently determined by the Public Procurement Oversight Appeals Board (PPOA) and parliament and consequently cleared the company of any wrongdoing. But EACC appealed the decision faulting Justice Mutava of refusing to consider evidence adduced by witnesses to the effect that the contract was tainted with fraud. EACC also accused the trial judge of ignoring the unchallenged evidence to the effect that neither Mr Mwiti nor his company was registered to deal with pharmaceuticals. The anti-graft commission’s position was that the tender, having been obtained by fraudulent means, was invalid and that Dol International was not entitled to any damages. On May 19 2016 appellate judges allowed the EACC appeal and dismissed Justice Mutava’s ruling.  