You see the glamorous women on television, on social media or magazines. They live the life you wish you had because they are doing well, they are at exclusive events, or they give the most amazing shows and it all seems easy. The struggle that these individuals have had to go through to make what they do seem easy is rarely discussed. So what’s it like living the public eye? And what sacrifices have they had to make?  Rachel Muthoni Njeru aka    Rachel Njeru is may have studied a Bachelors of Arts in sociology, political science and language and communications, but she has always had a passion for radio. During her second year of university in 2006, she interned at Ghetto Radio. In 2007, she was hired by Home Boyz Radio. “I would work from 6am to 6pm on sports news. I was missing classes, but my friends would help me out with notes and alert me on CATs and assignment dates. Then later on, we were put on a late night show that ran from midnight to 3am,” she remembers. She got her first daytime show in 2011 and she felt she would be better off presenting the show in Swhaili. Mwalimu Rachel is the radio persona that she created to fit that need. “I felt Swahili isn’t spoken well in the country and I wanted to address this. My producer felt we should have a bell and prefects. Rae Kiragu, who stood in for me when I was on maternity leave, brought in the idea of Break Time (a 15-minute segment of uninterrupted deejay-played music),” she says. She also became the first host of the television show Home Grown. In 2013 she fell pregnant and her weight went from 50 kilos to 85 kilos. A female receptionist at work would point this out to her every day after she came back from maternity leave, and so rather than go back to TV, she spent a lot of time in the gym working out. Last year she came back on  The Couple’s Show and was on Top Chama Show too. Rachel has had close shaves with fans, but the most bizarre was when a delusional fan kept messaging her and calling her “his girl.”  She was pregnant then, and he also called the baby “theirs”. He made the mistake of  visiting her workplace and she called security on him. “I usually allow my fans to come up and even take selfies with me and have a quick chat, (but) I felt my baby’s life and mine were in danger so I acted accordingly. My fans know I’m a no-nonsense person. If you approach me respectfully, I will accord you the same respect. Another artiste called me and tried to tell me about his track like I knew him. I told him to email me, but he still wanted to converse some more, so I hung up on him. The worst is when the artistes get my number from wherever and then start WhatsApping me. I get the feeling they are trying to save up on airtime and I send them my email address and stop the conversation there,” she said. While she was starting out as an emcee one promoter took advantage of her, paying her a third of what the client had offered her. She now has a standing rate for the different types of emceeing jobs she does, and having networked in the industry she knows enough people to approach clients directly. Because of what she’s been through she started MRX (Mwalimu Rachel Experience) to get artistic 18 to 24-year-olds to bigwigs directly and to show them they can do whatever they set their hearts out to do. Rachel’s experience with her friends and family has been a mixed bag. “Many of my friends understand why I am not as free as they may be with their time but many family members often feel I am just avoiding them and pretending to be busy. I try to understand it’s because they miss me very much and so I don’t get mad. At the end of the day, we are still family,” she says. Does she feel pressure to look perfect when she steps out in public? “Not really. From a young age, say 10, I enjoyed dressing up and making my hair. When I started using make-up after college, I realised it enhanced my beauty. I am not a slave to it; my Sundays are dedicated to zero make-up so my face can breathe.” Sometimes there is the pressure to carry her on-air persona to real life, but Rachel doesn’t feel it. “What you see or hear is what you get in real life, so I don’t feel like I am living a double life on and off air,” she says.   Eunice Atieno Onyango,    Eunice Atieno is 23 years old, a University of Nairobi student and a beauty pageant queen of note. She got into the modelling world in 2014 after her relatives and friends told her she was wasting her five-foot-nine-inch frame. Starting out in the modelling business was hard. “There are girls who make you feel inferior; they would keep getting jobs. I decided to quit in December 2014, but then a call-up for models for the FAFA Insight show came in January 2015,” says Eunice. Being selected for this gave her faith in herself. It was during this event that she heard other models talking about the Miss International pageant and decided she wanted to enter. But the realities of the modelling world have not passed her by. “There’s a lot of exploitation especially if you don’t ask for how much you’ll be paid, or don’t sign a contract before doing the job. They’ll even pay you a fifth of what you are supposed to actually get. It happened to me, and it happens to girls who don’t have managers,” she says. She is now a brand muse for Adèle Dejak and in the final stages of signing a contract to appear at Fashion Week in Nigeria later this year. Because of her business, Eunice can’t have her photos taken at concerts or when she’s in crowded places because she can’t control how it would reflect on her image. Other than that, and the fact that she can now afford her own house, goes to a posh gym thrice a week, and has to have some make-up on outside, nothing has changed. She still shops at thrift markets or on the streets when she sees stuff she likes, and also takes the occasional matatu ride when she doesn’t have cab fare to move around. Her family has been understanding and supportive, but some friends have gone their way. Thankfully, she does not feel much pressure to live in the public, but she still has to watch herself. “I have so many teenage girls and even my peers who look up to me, so I can’t live life without thinking how that will impact them,” she says.   Cindy Abila,    Twenty-four-year-old Cindy performs under the name Cara Feral. She has been a professional artiste for three years now, with songs such as “Take It For Love” and “Kati Kati” under her belt. Performing has been her passion since her childhood. She did an amateur song and video while in high school. “Back then I just did songs because I loved it, and didn’t have a clear vision of what I wanted to achieve,” she says. Now she has a management team that helps direct her career. Cindy is an attractive young lady and she calls this a blessing and a curse. Some producers and industry shot callers see this before her talent, and she admits that she sometimes smiles or flirts to achieve an end. However, she knows when to put a stop to it when innocent flirting is about to turn into a serious request for sex in order to give a certain service. Her looks have also made her the subject of gossip, with some claiming she is only making headway because of that – after all, sex sells. “I thank God that my looks help the image I am trying to push,” she counters. “It’s great for posters and advertising gigs, but I always use my talent and put in the work,” she says. Her parents have been understanding – within limits. “My parents have been very supportive, but they ask me if music is what I want to do. Professionalism sometimes has been more than wanting in this industry. When she was starting out, a video director once made her play an extra-sexy role that she wasn’t comfortable with. To “spice her up” she was given liquor at a time when she was having a problem with drinking. She’s been sober for “a good time now” as part of her rebranding.  She also had to deal with producers who “lost” audio files or whole tracks, and fellow artistes she collaborated with and didn’t inform her about video shoots or failed to show up for recordings even after she had paid them for  appearances. In terms of keeping up appearances that she’s living the celebrity life, she doesn’t want to give herself unnecessary pressure. “I don’t mind going in a matatu sometimes, and if I see something nice in the streets I will buy it. Life is short and I won’t do something stupid or steal just to pretend to be something I’m not. I have nothing against socialites, but they seem to live the life that artistes should. At the end of the day we are different people with different thresholds of what we are willing to give up for a “good life” she says. She’s also struggled with privacy and space with regards to fans. They always feel that they can talk to her at any time and across different platforms, including even stopping her on the way to talk to her. For shows, she has personal security just to ensure she is totally secure. Her private life has been fodder for public gossip even though she tries to keep it as private as possible. She’s also lost some friends and relatives along the way. “They don’t understand that I’m occupied with work just like any other job, and music is very demanding. Not everyone will understand my journey till the plane sets off. Most of those who drifted away expected favours like hook-ups with tickets to events or meeting some people they thought would give them a leg up through me.” Does she feel the pressure to be perfect in public? “Definitely,” she says. “Society expects a lot from public figures. Any mistake trends within seconds on social media, which is unfair because we are human beings. We shouldn’t be quick to judge one’s actions or lifestyle; we don’t know what they are going through at the moment.”  