Leading presidential aspirants have stepped up efforts to court Amani National Congress leader Musalia Mudavadi who analysts believe will play a critical role in the next elections. Cord and Jubilee strategists believe Mr Mudavadi, who comes from the second most populous region, will seal next year’s polls in their favour, if he joins their camp. In the 2013 election, Jubilee won with a margin of 700,000 votes in the first round and Cord believes if Mr Mudavadi joined their side to form a super alliance, they would not only deny Jubilee the constitutional 50 plus one threshold to win in the first round, but they would emerge clear victors. Jubilee leaders, on the other hand, are confident Mr Mudavadi’s support would hand them a decisive win in the first round. On Friday, Cord leader Raila Odinga, Wiper secretary-general Hassan Omar and Jubilee’s Johnson Sakaja all said they were working on forging a relationship with Mr Mudavadi. Mr Odinga, whose allies have welcomed the possibility of Mr Mudavadi joining Cord with open arms, on Friday said he had held meetings with his former deputy in ODM on “common issues” which affect Kenyans. “I chat a lot with Wycliffe (Mudavadi). We talk generally and on common issues which we can work on for the good of Kenyans. We are open to any strategy which will help send home the Jubilee administration that has failed to deliver on its pledges to Kenyans,” he said on the telephone. Mr Omar said the ANC boss was among a group of opposition politicians who will soon join Cord to form a super alliance which will agree on one presidential candidate to face Jubilee Party’s President Uhuru Kenyatta in the 2017 elections. Mr Odinga has also named Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Governor Isaac Ruto of Chama cha Mashinani as the other leaders Cord is courting. Mr Sakaja, a nominated MP who chaired President Kenyatta’s now dissolved TNA party, cautioned Mr Mudavadi against joining Cord which he described as “a shrinking coalition”. He invited him to work with the Jubilee Party. “For him to be part of the winning team, he should join us in Jubilee. While we have reached out to areas which did not give us a lot of votes and brought them on board, Cord is shrinking and even if he joins them, it won’t win the next elections,” he said. DO NOT GIVE INLast week, Deputy President William Ruto urged Mr Mudavadi to work with the Jubilee Party and support his presidency in 2022. He reminded the ANC leader that he supported him and President Kenyatta in 2002 and that in 2007, he supported their bid with Mr Odinga on the ODM ticket. Mr Ruto has in recent months made several trips to Mr Mudavadi’s Western turf and is expected in Ikolomani, Kakamega today. While not ruling out the possibility of working with one of the two coalitions, the ANC leader revealed that he was focused on crafting a strong third option to Jubilee Party and Cord due to the window which has been provided by the Elections (Amendment) Act, which denies aspiring politicians their right to join or leave a political party any time. He spoke amid growing reports that he had held talks with Mr Odinga over the possibility of joining the Cord coalition as the fourth principal, joining former Vice-President Kalonzo Musyoka (Wiper Party) and Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula (Ford Kenya). “We are holding multiple consultations with like-minded political actors whom we share a common vision of redeeming Kenyans from the jaws of Jubilee’s misrule,” Mr Mudavadi, who contested the presidency in the last election and emerged third, said. “While we are happy that this topic is in the public domain, we are going to reveal our political stand when the right time comes,” he explained, adding he is contesting the next elections as a presidential candidate. He said he was reaching out to Baringo Senator Gideon Moi and Bomet Governor Isaac Ruto to find ways of forming a strong third option. In his Western region backyard, however, a number of leaders want Mr Mudavadi’s name on the presidential ballot paper in 2017. Vihiga Governor Moses Akaranga has also asked Mr Mudavadi to fight the battle to the end in his second bid for the top seat. — Reports by Bernard Namunane, Benson Amadala and Wanderi Kamau  