Harambee Stars captain Victor Wanyama and striker Jesse Were have been nominated for top Caf awards. Wanyama is among the 30-man list of nominees for the prestigious African Player of the Year while Were was nominated in the Africa-based African Player of the Year category. The African Player of the Year award is a brainchild of continent’s football governing body Caf, and primarily seeks to identify and decorate Africa's top footballers each year. Wanyama, who plies his trade at English club Tottenham Hotspur, makes the shortlist alongside 29 other players for the African Player of the Year Award. The midfielder has been recognised for his outstanding performances for both the national team and his club in England over the past year. He will battle it out for the top gong alongside the likes of Andre Ayew (West Ham and Ghana), John Obi Mikel (Chelsea and Nigeria), Kelechi Iheanacho (Manchester City and Nigeria), Itumeleng Khune (Orlando Pirates and South Africa) and Mbwana Samatta (Genk and Tanzania). Were, 27, who is attached to Zambian Super League champions Zesco United, has been in sublime form this year. He is currently second on the list of top scorer’s chart in the country's top flight league with 14 goals, two behind Nkana FC’s Walter Bwalywa. Were, who was last season's Kenyan Premier League top scorer, has also featured prominently for Zesco in the impressive run towards the semi-finals of this year's Caf Champions League, where he scored four goals. "This recognition has really made me proud of my efforts and I want to specifically recognise my family, alongside the efforts of my coaches at Tusker, Zesco and the national team in helping me get here. I hope to win the award," Were told Sunday Nation Sport. Were will compete against teammates Idriss Mbombo and Jackson Mwanza (from DRC and Zambia respectively, Ugandan goalkeeper Dennis Onyango (Mamelodi Sundowns), Rainford Kalaba (TM Mazembe and Zambia) and Chisom Chikatara (Nigeria and Wydad Casablanca).   Tusker showed grit and character to break the dockers’ resistance to keep alive their hopes of a first league title in four years.