The drought situation in Samburu County is worsening by the day, with desperate families walking long distances in search of food, water and pasture for their livestock. The situation for the past three weeks has left thousands of residents at risk of starvation in the looming famine. Women, children and the elderly are the most affected, as the drought persists in the northern parts of the county, with Baragoi, South Horr, Barseloi, Wamba, Suyan, Loonjorin, Ntepes in Opiroi and Nachola the most affected areas. A spot check by the Daily Nation on Sunday and Monday revealed a desperate situation. In some areas, families wake up as early as 4am to sit on the roadside, where they hope to get the attention of travellers to give them food and water. Throughout the day, they endure the scorching sun and, together with herders, chase after vehicles, hoping to secure something to quench their thirst and fill their stomachs.  Ms Josephine Lerumaki is among the families that stopped us, begging. The mother of seven is from Ntepes, where the biting effects of the drought have been felt for the past month. Ms Lerumaki is accompanied by five of her children, all under the age of 12. She says her family has not had food for a week and she is afraid she might lose her children to famine. “We have lived in this condition for the past two weeks,” said Ms Lerumaki. “We have no one to help us or support us with food and water. “My husband left with our camels to look for pasture and water four days ago and he is yet to return.” There are four more families by the road, waiting for passers-by to drop something for them. “Some of our old family members are left in the manyatta (traditional home) without food or water,” says Ms Lerumaki, adding that neither the county nor the national government have come to their rescue. As we speak to her, more families — mostly women and children from Barseloi and Suyan — arrive. Among them is an expectant Anna Lekishon and her two-year-old child. Ms Lekishon, who is carrying three 10-litre jerry cans, tells us that she has been on the road for the past three days. She says her home area is even drier than Ntepes. “I had to come all the way to look for water and food for my family in this condition because we don’t have anyone else to help us back home,” say Ms Lekishon. “My husband and some of his male relatives have gone to look for a better place to graze our cattle and I don’t know when they will be back.” Tightly holding her son’s hand in the scorching sun, she narrates how they spent the nights with well-wishers in manyattas found in the deep thickets of Samburu. “The homes I spent my two nights also don’t have sufficient food and water and they also plan to look for more to sustain them,” Ms Lekishon lamented, adding that she had gone through the wild animal-infested bush to look for a way to survive with her family. Ms Lekishon said she had made the decision because of her son and two other children, who no longer go to school because there is no food. Underground water. UNDERGROUND WATER Being quite sandy, Ntepes is used by many as a source of underground water. This is what most of the women use as the only reservoir left for them before they receive any relief. In other areas, we find desperate women digging holes in the dry, sandy ground. They have to wait for hours before water seeps through the holes to scoop out some to fill their containers. At Loonjorin, 83 kilometres further north, we find a group of morans digging up an old dry well. Without protective gear, the young men risk by entering the 15-foot muddy well to dig further. They, however, say it is the best option for them and their families’ survival. Leading the team is Mr Sam Lenolkirina, who criticises the county government, saying it has not in any way supported them. “We cannot die of thirst and we cannot allow our livestock to die because we have no water,” said Mr Lenolkirina. “That is the reason we have decided as men from this village to come together and look for a solution.” According to the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) and the Samburu County Government, an estimated 54,000 people have been affected by the drought and are at risk of starvation. The NDMA issued a famine alert about two weeks ago, when it called for urgent intervention. The county government and the authority had promised to start distribution of relief food to the affected families from the beginning of this week but that was yet to happen as we went to press. The affected families are now calling upon the national government to intervene fast, saying many are at risk of malnutrition. Those rearing camels are relying on their milk for survival. Meanwhile, local leaders and residents have appealed to the government to buy their livestock at good prices before they starve to death.   Devolution Cabinet Secretary Mwangi Kiunjuri said on Friday that the number is however lower than three years ago.