Rattled by prospects of a grand opposition alliance storming to victory next year, the Jubilee Party is working on a counter-strategy to ensure President Uhuru Kenyatta does not become the country’s first one-term Head of State. The two-pronged scheme, according to insiders, is to either win over some of the politicians being roped into the alliance or sponsor them to separately run for president. This is with the aim of splitting the opposition vote in what could relive the 1992 elections when Ford, an opposition behemoth, crumbled at the last minute, handing President Daniel Moi five more years in office. Despite public pronouncements that the opposition is too disjointed to mount a formidable challenge, the President’s men are busy scheming how to stop the possibility of such a mega alliance in its tracks. “If they can’t even agree on a matter as simple as who among them should be their flagbearer, do you think these are people who can be entrusted to run the affairs of this country?” Deputy President William Ruto condescendingly posed in a recent public rally. Emissaries are already said to have been dispatched to try and convince at least two of the players to abandon the idea. POTENT FORMULA One of the people charged with coming up with the most potent formula told the Nation that Mr Kenyatta has been a victim of such an alliance and he will be the last man to be caught off-guard. “Were it not for a conglomeration of opposition parties rooting for Mr Mwai Kibaki in 2002, many agree Uhuru would have become President then. We will not sit by and watch this development; they (the opposition parties) will have to sweat about this idea. We will make it an uphill task for them,” he said. Jubilee Party vice chairman and President Kenyatta’s ally David Murathe dismissed such an opposition alliance as incapable of upsetting the political balance. “When the presidential votes were counted in 2013, any other vote that was not in Uhuru’s basket was in what people are now calling a super alliance yet he met the required 50+1 votes,” he said. National Assembly Majority Leader Aden Duale expressed confidence that Jubilee would secure another term by just keeping its 2013 support bases intact. “We have an upper hand after making significant inroads in opposition controlled areas. They can all gang up together but that is a ticket that is headed nowhere,” he said. EUROPEAN AMBASSADORS Meanwhile, it has emerged that opposition luminaries led by Cord leaders Raila Odinga and Kalonzo Musyoka, their Amani National Congress counterpart Musalia Mudavadi and Narc Kenya leader Martha Karua met European Union ambassadors on Thursday. During the sitting, the envoys reportedly enquired about plans to form the National Super Alliance (Nasa). An impeccable source who attended the meeting at European Union offices in Nairobi said the diplomats expressed concern over incessant corruption scandals in the Jubilee government and wanted to know what plans Nasa had up its sleeves to tame corruption were they to win the elections. The source said the team demonstrated their resolve to work together with a view to ending corruption, as well as strengthening devolution, which they accused the current regime of sabotaging. Mr Odinga told the Nation on Friday that plans of unveiling “an-all-inclusive alliance” were underway. “We welcome all Kenyans who share in our ideology, those who feel that the country must be brought back to the right track,” he said. The former prime minister said none of his allies would accede to any machinations by the government to scatter them. Until Mr Musyoka came out strongly on Mashujaa Day, and “formally handed over” Wiper rebels to Mr Kenyatta, reminding the leaders who include Machakos Governor Alfred Mutua that they would face the people’s wrath at the ballot, Jubilee had hoped to talk the former vice president into crossing over to their camp. JUBILEE'S RADAR Bungoma Senator Moses Wetang’ula, another Cord principal, who was missing at the meeting with EU envoys, has also been in Jubilee’s radar. For a long time, Jubilee has been keen not to attack the two, unlike the case with Mr Odinga. But the challenge in reaching out to the two, much as they maintain that joining Jubilee is not in the cards, would be what slots to offer them. Makueni Senator Mutula Kilonzo Junior (Wiper) argues that having been the second in command, the lowest seat Mr Musyoka can settle for is Deputy President. “You know Jubilee’s house is full. Furthermore, we do not share any ideologies with them. Mr Musyoka’s prospects of upward mobility is in Cord’.” Equally, Mr Wetang’ula, when asked whether he would join Jubilee, said: “I cannot run away from a coalition I helped create”. The fluid nature of the country’s politics has more often than not proved that declarations by politicians do not stand the test of time. As such, anything is possible between now and August 8. Shrugging off talk of Jubilee infiltration, Mr Mudavadi told the Nation that Nasa is the panacea to the evils that have dogged the country under Mr Kenyatta’s watch.  