“I lost my brother to prostate cancer. He inspired me to start a palliative care centre.” Schola Ndaba   Schola, 70, lost her brother to prostate cancer in April 2011. “S.K lived in Kasarani with his wife and four children,” says Schola when we meet at her palliative care centre in the outskirts of Ngong for this interview. “He wasn’t being looked after well at home. The cancer advanced. By the time his wife took him to the local hospital, he was severely malnourished. We couldn’t recognise him. We moved him to the private ward at Kenyatta Hospital to get better care. We used his pension to pay for the hospital bills.” At Kenyatta, S.K developed bedsores. The sores were as wide as saucers and cut into the depth of his bones. “The doctor at Kenyatta told us he was dying. There was nothing more they could do for him so they asked us to take him home,” says Schola. It was right before Christmas in 2010. “I hired two nurses to look after him. They medicated him, bathed him, combed his hair, brushed his teeth and fed him very well. S.K added weight in a short time. The sores healed. He was always clean and happy. You couldn’t believe it was the same person. “S.K was upbeat on the morning he died,” Schola continues. “He asked the chef to fix him a large Spanish omelette, two slices of toast and a mug of tea for breakfast. After breakfast, the nurse told him to rest for a bit then she would come give him his morning bath. But by the time she returned, S.K was gone. She called me and told me, ‘S.K ameenda’. I asked her, ‘Ameenda wapi?’ She said he’s died.” What gave Schola peace and joy was that he had gone comfortably, and that his final days were around people who had loved and cared for him. His death inspired her to start a centre where she could give the same care to other cancer patients as she had to her brother. They called it Trinity Care Centre. It’s the only palliative care centre in Kenya. Schola and her husband, Joseph, run it with a staff of 10.  “We sold off most of our property so we could get funds to start building the centre in December 2013,” says Schola.  She’d been a businesswoman, her husband a diplomat. “We got Sh25 million to start us off. We later got more funds to expand and equip the centre. Co-operative Bank loaned us Sh10million, Family Bank Sh15 million.” Schola takes me on a tour of the centre. It sits on an acre of what was their retirement home.  What was once their kitchen is now the pharmacy; two of the bedrooms are expanded into wards. The master bedroom is now the office where the staff – a medical officer called Victor, and a nurse called Phyllis – sit. The veranda is now a lounge. The living room remains. We walk to another block. “This is a maternity ward,” says Schola. “This will bring us funds to run the palliative care centre.” We walk to another block that’s still under construction. It will be a theatre. Then to another block: “This is a private and paediatric wing.” In a quiet corner of the property is a one-bedroom house where Schola and Joseph now live. There have been 20 patients in Schola’s care since she opened her doors last April. We find three – two females and a male – on the day we meet. The centre can take up to 29. Contact info Trinity Care Centre Founder, Schola Ndaba 0722 708 934  __________ CATCHING IT EARLY “My sister caught her cancer early. She inspired me to give treatment and free screening for cervical cancer.” Benda Kithaka   “No woman should die of a disease that can be prevented,” says Benda Kithaka. Benda co-founded an organisation in February, 2012, with three of her friends – Elizabeth Mbuthia, a nurse; Catherine Wachira, a lawyer and Dr Njoki Njiraini, an oncologist. Benda was the marketer. She quit her job at a global motoring firm so she could focus fully on the organisation. “Each of us has an experience with cancer. For me, it was my sister who caught hers early and went on to have children,” says Benda, 41. “Our organisation is called Women 4 Cancer Early Detection and Treatment. It’s registered as an NGO. We started the organisation to reach out to women so they can get screened for cervical cancer, then get treatment before it gets to an advanced stage. Cervical cancer is curable when caught early.” Their goal was to get one million women screened for cervical cancer, and to create awareness about the disease so that women could go for screening themselves. “The first woman on our programme was called Margaret. She was 43 then. We met Margaret through a screening camp in Sigona. After we told her she had tested positive for cervical cancer, she was ready to sell her cow so she could get money for the treatment.” It was one thing to make the women aware of a disease they didn’t even know they had, and another to give them access to the treatment. “But we came together as the founders and went into our pockets to raise the cash she needed for full care and treatment. We raised Sh40,000. Margaret got a complete hysterectomy.” The founders acknowledged that this wasn’t a sustainable strategy for the organisation though – it would be unrealistic to give cash for treatment to every woman that tested positive for cervical cancer. “So we got doctors to give us subsidised rates for consultation, radio and chemotherapy, lab work and drugs. We also have a programme that empowers the women to be self-sustainable after they’ve received treatment.” This is where Rose Chiedo comes in. Rose is 40 and a mother of one. She is a survivor of cervical cancer. “I volunteer as a Patient Navigator and Survivors Project Manager. What I do is to help these women demystify the disease and give them support throughout their treatment. I also make visits to the cancer ward at Kenyatta Hospital to talk to the women. I manage the 15 cancer survivors we work with. We meet monthly. They are all entrepreneurs now. The women make and sell beadwork, African wear and kitenge. We’re going to Abidjan next week to showcase our work. We’re excited! I’ve never been to Abijan before.” Women 4 Cancer holds four to five medical camps annually, in different towns across the country. To date, they have screened over 2,800 women and given them access to treatment. Some women have gone on to recover fully, others have lost the battle along the way. “We are fully funded by the goodwill of Kenyans,” says Benda. “We’ve received about Sh2.5 million in cash since inception. But last year wasn’t a good year for us; we were stretched financially. There was one woman we lost. I still get goose bumps when I talk about her case.” Benda pauses. “Her name was Bukasake, she was from Samburu. Her cancer had advanced and we sent her back home. I feel that we over-promised her.” Contact info Women 4 Cancer Early Detection and Treatment Co-founder, Benda Kithaka0717 117 446 ****** BEAUTY FOR ASHES “My mum has lung cancer. She inspired me to give away free wigs and makeovers to cancer survivors.” Connie Mbuvi   Connie Mbuvi runs a salon called Wigs and Turbans. “I started the salon in February 2015. Our mission was to give away wigs and turbans to women and children who’ve suffered hair loss; any hair loss, whether from alopecia, cancer, you name it,” says Connie, 44, a hotelier by profession. “We also give away free beauty treatments: makeovers, facials, pedicures, manicures.” The giveaways were inspired after Connie saw for herself how the how cancer treatment wears the body down. “My mother has been battling lung cancer for six years,” says Connie. “I saw what she went through looking for good wigs and turbans to cover her head. It was a problem. I decided to run this project so that other women who’ve lost their hair to cancer won’t have the same problem.” The wigs Connie gives away are high-end: Connie imports them from Europe. They are made of silk lace on the inside and human hair on the outside. They are medicated and comfortable because they aren’t itchy on the women’s sensitive scalps. They are easy to wear and maintain, they last longer and – most importantly, coupled with the beauty treatment – they make the women look and feel like a million bucks. “You can see happiness in the faces of these women when they look in the mirror,” says Connie. “They feel beautiful. And they don’t feel like they are sick. The transformation is amazing! Somehow, it’s therapy for them.” Connie has been working mostly with women from Faraja Cancer Support Trust, an organisation that provides support to anyone affected by cancer. “But we are still open to any survivor. We give away the makeovers every day,” says Connie. “We give away the wigs and turbans once a month. We welcome these strong women to our salon!” Contact info Wigs and Turbans Salon Founder, Connie Mbuvi 0705 699 411  