Debate in many a County Assembly is never complete without fisticuffs, an exchange of harsh words and members hurling chairs at one another. Examples abound.  MOMBASA Rebel without a cause Since his election in 2013, the battle-hardened Kongowea Ward Representative Jabess Oduor has been in the news for right and wrong reasons. The youthful MCA has been questioned by the police on various allegations, including extortion and forgery, amid allegations of confiscating two vehicles worth more than Sh5 million and girlfriend-snatching. Renowned for picking battles with ‘McheleMchele MCAs’ — the local slang for MCAs with Swahili origins — he was so angry when the county government cancelled his outdoor advertisement bills that he sued it.  KISII Nurse-beating ‘wife shooter’ When it comes be being rough and unruly, there are few people who will come as close to Boniface Wright Okenye, the Basi Bogetaoria MCA whose run-ins with the law include spending nights in the cells after he threatened to shoot his wife. The issue was later settled by elders. Recently, he beat up Ms Beatrice Omutiti, a nursing officer at Oresi Health Centre, when he accompanied a patient seeking medical care. Daylong protests by medical officers in the county followed after he slapped the nurse and hurled insults at her.  KWALE ‘My governor’s sycophant’ Generally, people don’t like being called sycophants. One of the few exceptions is Kasemeni MCA Anthony Yama, who goes around publicly declaring that he is Governor Salim Mvurya’s sycophant. Such is his love for the governor that he usually dons a cap inscribed “Mvurya Tena” (a rallying call to re-elect Mvurya) and even runs a Facebook page known as “Kasemeni for Salim Mvurya and Anthony Yama”. The former primary school teacher says he is ready to “carry the governor’s briefcase” and even piggy-back him should he lose his MCA seat in next year’s General Election. One of the most controversial MCAs in the county, he often makes statements against his colleagues and often says he is not proud to be a Ward Rep. On more than one occasions, his fellow MCAs have locked him out of the Assembly so as to “discipline” him.  ELGEYO-MARAKWET Bling pastor It’s said that the only MCA unlikely to steal taxpayers’ money is Benson Kiptire, the Leader of Minority in the County Assembly. Kiptire, who came to the Assembly driving his own Prado car, a measure of runaway economic success, is also the only MCA who lives in a house fit to accommodate the President. The ageing but flamboyant pastor dons expensive jewelry and designer suits.  NYERI MCA got underwear ‘grant’ Paul Ngiria, the Chinga MCA, was found without innerwear after his clothes were torn in a fistfight with a colleague just outside the Assembly over the impeachment of Governor Nderitu Gachagua. The impeachment was eventually overturned by the Senate. MCAs donated undergarments to save him further embarrassment.  LAMU Reveller beats up journalists Mpeketoni residents like to joke that if you are looking for nominated MCA Monica Njambi, just go to the nearest open bar or club. Other than being a regular in entertainment spots, Ms Njambi runs the popular Mpeketoni County Club, which is located in the county. She’s such a no-nonsense lady that, when a journalist recorded her at an event, she waylaid her in the wee hours and beat her up. Apparently, The Star’s correspondent Jane Wangechi had provided video clips as evidence to the National Cohesion and Integration Commission (NCIC), which is investigating the MCA over hate speech charges. A warrant of arrest was issued against her and she was later arrested.  NYANDARUA He punches up rivals If you want to oppose a politician and you care about your physical wellbeing, make sure that politician is not Peter Wahome Kamoche, the MCA for Rurii Ward. Kamoche has created an image of the guy who goes after his opponents with kicks and fists. In the most recent case, the former activist, who worked with human rights organisations for over 25 years, beat up a supporter of his opponent in January at the launch of the Governor’s Cup football tournament at Ol Kalou Stadium.  