REFEREES: As late as Friday, the Kenyan Premier League management had yet to settle on officials to take charge of the match. KPL Leagues and Competitions manager Michael Kirwa told Daily Nation Sport that he has approached Fifa-accredited referees to officiate the match but most declined the assignment for fear of insecurity. Davies Omweno, KPL’s first option, is said to have made it clear that he would never make himself available for such a match after irate fans beat him up sometime last year and smashed windows of his car. Israel Mpaima would have been a good fit for the game, but he has just come from a lengthy suspension was slapped on him by the league’s disciplinary committee. Raphael Nduati is the only referee who showed interest in taking charge of the match, but the league body was reluctant to use him since he has presided over two consecutive derbies. Friday evening, George Mwai was appointed centre referee, assisted by Tony Kidiya and John Alando. Peter Waweru will be the fourth official while John Ngururi will be the match commissioner. DERBY OF FIRSTS AND LASTS: Both Marcelo Ferreira and Ezekiel Akwana will be taking charge of their first derby. In the first leg match played on March 6, Ingwe, coached by Ivan Minnaert, won 1-0 against a Frank Nuttall-coached K’Ogalo. It is also the first time that an electronic ticketing system has been made available for fans seeking entry into the stadium. Fans will need to purchase tickets online via MPesa and then show proof of purchase by displaying the ticket number. This is likely to be the last derby that Gor chairman Ambrose Rachier attends as chairman of the Kenyan Premier League Limited, as he will relinquish that position should Gor Mahia fail to win the league title this year. WHAT IS AT STAKE: Apart from bragging rights, a lot is at stake in the match. The result will determine Gor’s fate in the title race. Three points will enable them to keep pace with leaders Tusker. A loss will significantly ruin their title ambitions. They trail Tusker by six points with only four games left. Ingwe are out of all competitions this season, but the right to chest-thump for beating the defending champions home and away will be most welcome. HISTORY: In their past 12 encounters, Ingwe and K’Ogalo have each won four times and drawn four time. LAST FIVE GAMES: Gor 0-1 AFC Leopards Gor - AFC (Abandoned. Gor awarded three points plus 2 goals) AFC Leopards 1-1 Gor Mahia AFC Leopards 2-2 Gor Mahia Gor Mahia 1-3 AFC Leopards   The gulf in the standings aside, its Game On!