The Makonde people endured great difficulties in their trek from Kwale to Nairobi where they hoped to meet President Uhuru Kenyatta over delays in granting them Kenyan citizenship. While the trekkers included the youth, a large number of them were elderly. The elders said they were prepared to die on the road if that was what it would take to leave a better future for their children. Having set off from Makongeni village in Kwale County, where they were flagged off by county government officials, the trekkers found that Coast Regional Co-ordinator Nelson Marwa, with whom they had unsuccessfully sought audience, had set up a hall in Kombani, on the Likoni-Ukunda road, into which he ordered the police to herd the trekkers so that he could address them. But the trekkers refused to enter the hall and told the police that Mr Marwa, who was already waiting for them in the hall, could only address them at the roadside where the police had stopped them. They borded their buses and were on the move again. At Maganyakulo, the next shopping centre, where the trekkers had disembarked to walk again, the police arrived and announced that Mr Marwa was now prepared to address them by the roadside. Mr Marwa arrived but was then told that two of the 10 buses had proceeded to Ng’ombeni, the next shopping centre. Mr Marwa then barked to the police to speed ahead and return them to Maganyakulo. But Mr George Kegoro, the Executive Director of the Kenya human Rights Commission, the organisation that had mobilised the trekkers, argued with him, pointing out that he had no power to arrest people for walking. Mr Marwa rejected Mr Kegoro’s suggestion that he should address only those present. He explained that he had an important message from the government and all should hear it. As the argument heated up, acting Kwale County Commissioner Hiram Mwangi, jumped in between Mr Kegoro and Mr Marwa, to shield his boss from having to argue with Mr Kegoro. But Mr Marwa pushed Mr Mwangi aside, telling him that he could handle the situation without his help. ADDRESS THEM A compromise was reached that the whole group should proceed to Ng’ombeni and that Mr Marwa could address all of them there. At Ng’ombeni, where the regional commissioner arrived before the bulk of the trekkers, he attempted to address the advance group but they refused to listen in the absence of their leaders who were still at Maganyakulo. There was some delay as those left behind had convened an emergency meeting to discuss what Mr Marwa was likely to do and how they should react. Their leaders also made calls to Nairobi asking for people to put pressure on Mr Marwa not to stand in their way. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights called the commissioner and told him to let the trekkers be. At Ng’ombeni, Mr Marwa finally got his wish and addressed the trekkers. But first he ordered the police to chase away a curious group of locals that had joined the trekkers, who were easily identifiable by their red t-shirts. His message was that the government had published a notice in the Gazette renewing for three more years, the deadline for the registration for stateless persons. He said the Minister had prepared a Cabinet paper that would be tabled at the next Cabinet meeting seeking final approval for granting the Makonde citizenship, and that going to Nairobi would be futile since that is the information they would get there. He finally told them not to allow themselves to be used by self-seeking NGOs. He noted that since the Makonde were law-abiding people, with very little crime recorded from among them, they should not jeopardise their good standing with the government by associating with NGOs that were trying to mislead them. Mr Thomas Nguli, the group leader, expressed surprise that Mr Marwa, whose office had always pushed them away telling them to go to Nairobi, was now trying to prevent them from going there. With that they left, spending the night in Mombasa from where they proceeded to Voi the next day. At Voi they were arrested and held at the local police station for more than two hours. It remains unclear why they were arrested. OFFICER DISAPPEARED Attempts to establish the reason for their arrest were unsuccessful as the officer commanding the station disappeared soon after ordering the arrest. The local County Commander Josephine Onunga had the trekkers released late at night. Once out of the former coast province, the police with whom the trekkers met on the way were friendly. Many are convinced that the hostility they experienced within the coast had to do with orders that Mr Marwa may have issued to the police not to be helpful to them. The intention of the trekkers was to have audience with President Kenyatta. A letter to the President by the Kenya Human Rights Commission, requesting for an appointment went unanswered. In the absence of an arranged meeting, it was decided the trekkers would try and leave a written petition at the gate of the State House. As the trekkers marched through the streets of Nairobi, on their way to State House, it remained unclear if they would be allowed access to the President’s residence. Trouble arose when they were confronted by police at Uhuru Park, as they marched up the hill towards State House. An argument ensued when Kilimani OCPD Peter Kattam informed them that they could not march to state House. Mr Kattam had assembled a large number of heavily armed policemen who were also backed by three police water cannons to back his directive. It could have ended disastrously as the trekkers stood in the middle of the road, eyeballing the heavily armed policemen. The arrival of Internal Cabinet Secretary Joseph Nkaissery provided a way out of what might otherwise have been an ugly situation, the minister announcing that the President was ready to meet the trekkers within 30 minutes. And so off they trudged to the State House. Instantly, the police transformed from mortal foes that seemed prepared to break the necks of the elderly men and women, to the friendliest facilitators, clearing all traffic before them.  