At exactly 3pm on Sunday, the 30,000-seater Nyayo National Stadium will burst to life as arch-rivals Gor Mahia and AFC Leopards clash in what is expected to be a charged Mashemeji derby. As has been the tradition with the derby, the poor form of both clubs heading to this match notwithstanding, the stakes are quite high. Three points and the bragging rights that come with it are on offer and each side will apply every trick in the book to emerge victorious. Though the drama and adrenaline with be high on the stands and the pitch, it is the two coaches; the 43-year-old Jose Marcelo Ferreira in the Gor Mahia dugout and AFC Leopards caretaker coach Ezekiel Akwana, who will be under the microscope. The match will be special for both coaches. Akwana, 40, will be overseeing his first Mashemeji derby as a coach just like Ze Maria who took charge at K’Ogalo in late March after Ingwe had pulled a 1-0 win over their nemesis in the first leg clash on March 7 at the Safaricom Stadium, Kasarani. Ze Maria, who has since come under intense scrutiny in the wake of inconsistence results, chose not to comment on the game yesterday, but in a post-match interview with the Daily Nation Sport on Wednesday after watching his side draw 2-2 with Western Stima, he said: “Our next match (the derby) is very important to us. We want to win and get three points. That is the aim. We prepare for victory and nothing else. We still have title hopes.” The Brazilian may be cautious but his assistant Tom Ogweno underlined the desire at Gor’s camp. "It’s true that we have not had a good run. It’s a derby and we are prepared. It’s tough match but we hope that with the proper preparations we have had and God willing, we should win,” said Ogweno. “This is football, you may expect it this way and results may not go your way. We are calling on our fans to come and cheer the boys because it requires the energy from all of us but they should portray the sportsmanship.” Akwana however stuck to his combative, abrasive style warning Gor that they should prepare for defeat. “I’m comfortable. I’ve handled some big games in the past and this will be no exception. I’m going to beat Gor Mahia to hand Tusker the title,” the 40-year-old Akwana who played for Ingwe. Midfielder Allan Kateregga (red-card) and John ‘Softie” Ndirangu (illness) are unavailable for the derby while Gor’s Ernest Wendo (ankle problem), Crispin Odula, Ronald Omino and Bernard Odhiambo (all knee problems) are set to play no part in the game. Gor, second on the log on 45 points, boasts of 12 wins, equal number of draws and two, while Ingwe are 12th in the standings from eight wins, nine draws and an equal number of losses. Gor have won the league a record 15 times while Leopards have 13. K’Ogalo are the defending champions after winning the title in the last three years while Leopards are still waiting for their first league trophy since 1998. The gulf in the standings aside, its Game On!   As late as Friday, the Kenyan Premier League management had yet to settle on officials to take charge of the derby.